[00:00:04] Hello, and welcome everyone. To what I believe is the most important Crossroads debate over the conference build versus buy. When it comes to generative AI, should we build and build our AI Genai muscles and go in and create those? Bespoke differentiated solutions for organization? Or should we piggyback on all of the effort and investment that is being funneled into those commercial uh offerings that are on the market today?
[00:00:33] Uh, so, um, before we get to blows, I guess we should probably talk about who we are. Um, my name is shell Carlson and I am representing the build side. Uh,
[00:00:45] Even though before becoming a gardener analyst, I was on the the commercial, a platform side of things. All right? And I'm Sumit Agarwal, I'm representing the buy side of it. Uh, I used to build a bespoke Solutions and You Must Be Wondering you know why are we taking these opposing positions partly? Because we are passionate about our work. We really you know like the depth of it uh and we want to be very objective, the other side of it, maybe we wanted to keep it confusing intentionally because the whole Space is confusing.
[00:01:16] Yeah, so I mean there might be not be many times when we agree with each other today but this is 1 that we definitely agree on is that there's a lot of confusion out there and we don't just see it in our inquiries. We see in our data when we asked folks. So are you planning?
[00:01:30] Ongoing in and building using, you know, your custom uh your custom applications with prompt engineering and rag or using fine tuning of your models. Over 50% of our respondents say that they're doing that. And then when we asked folks so are you buying using commercial Standalone, tools and the AI embedded capabilities of your existing Enterprise applications over 50% of folks say that they're doing that as well. So definitely a lot of confusion here and we want to get your sense. Uh, before we get into this debate, where do you guys stand? How many are are with me and feel that we should be building and get maximum differentiation of these with using bespoke AI Solutions?
[00:02:10] Okay, good number. Good number. All right. How about on the
[00:02:15] Side of it.
[00:02:17] Do you think already 1? Uh, I don't know. I think it's about 50/50 and I would say there's a big difference from when we did this debate over in Orlando. Uh, it was, it was a very different answer but I won't skew you. Uh, bias You by going in and revealing that just yet,
[00:02:32] Uh so let's um let's talk a little bit first about what exactly we're going to be covering in this build versus buy discussion. It is 1 where we're not going to be talking about the models and we're not going to be talking about the tools. Why? Because he would have already won.
[00:02:48] Um, for most organizations. This is not a question about whether we should build or buy our own models. Well, most folks are either buying or using off-the-shelf open source models, maybe they might be fine-tuning.
[00:03:00] It. But, you know, a lot of folks are, are, are going on the on the buy side of things, and when it comes to the platforms and tools, again, lots and lots of organizations, I would say, the vast majority of organizations are going in and buying that. So what we're really talking about here are the solutions, the, the end-to-end use cases the, The Soup To Nuts of what you're doing. Are you building that? Or are you buying that?
[00:03:25] Uh so to give you more of a sense of this. Um so then the build side of this, this would be going in and using both open source and proprietary Frameworks platforms and tools to go in and build something. That's a customer service agent or an IT Help Desk agent versus on the buy side. This would be going in and using someone like
[00:03:45] Court, AI or crai on the customer service side of things, or using someone like zendesk on the on the IT Help Desk, um automation side of things.
[00:04:00] I guess. So there's a question of well like why? Why are even having this discussion? I mean, is there any really different from from General software?
[00:04:07] Yeah. So you know AI has its own nuances on challenges. You know, if anybody heard the term agents, I'm sure you'll recognize that but it's it's all new space new uh, new challenges. But we broke up our debate into 3 different buckets.
[00:04:22] Uh, the first 1 is um, under speed and maturity. Uh, and we are just not talking about
[00:04:30] Um, quarterly software update cycle, right? Where a Model, A random model just dropped on a given Tuesday. We are talking about where a whole entire capability segment could be threatened because of the new capabilities that a model provider just released in the market.
[00:04:47] Yeah, so it's 1 of those things where it was already. I mean, some of these things were challenging when it comes to traditional software, it's just the the in the AI space. It's taking this to an entirely different level. And so when it comes to cost and capabilities, yeah, there's a certain amount of uncertainty in terms of how much it's going to take to develop traditional software or to buy an Implement traditional software. It's just magnitude by by by, by, by a different order of magnitude. When it comes to generating a generative Ai and
[00:05:15] Authentic, AI systems like how much is the talent going to cost? Uh how much is it going to uh cost to implement these? What is how many how much tokens are this going to use? And how much which model and what is that going to cost a lots and lots of uncertainty about every dimension of this which again is at a different order of magnitude versus traditional software.
[00:05:34] All right, and the third, uh, category there or third bucket. There is about control and flexibility.
[00:05:41] So on 1 side, you have the challenge, uh, you where you can go and buy a product, but you have the challenge of a vendor lock the other side. If you decide to go and build something, you know, the regulatory landscape, uh, the data constraints around it. Uh, the models the whole ecosystem, you have to figure it out and that's not trivial thing either.
[00:06:00] Yes, minor detail about it's like, well, your requirements are still evolving. The models are evolving. The solutions out there are evolving at Breakneck speeds. So again, this is uh, if you were wondering why why build versus buy is different, um, a lot of it's the same, it's just at a different order of magnitude relative to to traditional software say
[00:06:20] So this brings us to our our big, our big question for today.
[00:06:25] All right, well, with the states set.
[00:06:28] Uh, are you all ready? I'm hoping you're all ready for the debate. We definitely are so shelf. Would you do the honors certainly?
[00:06:38] Well, that's, you know, I I, I think I'm already winning so great. Thanks chef.
[00:06:45] Um so let's let's start with speed and maturity uh where I'm sure you know. Um you're following you're looking at, you know how uh The Innovation or the rate of innovation is changing
[00:06:58] uh, you know, Instagram, when it was rolled out, 24 months, looked like a, you know, short period of time in which an app, got 100 million users
[00:07:08] Tik Tok reached that number in 9 months.
[00:07:10] Chat GPD got that in 2 months. Meta claimed that they got their in 5 days. And I believe open claw probably had their, you know, the fame or they said, you know, we have the trophy when they got to that number and probably a day, right? So, you know, just the the rate at which the adoption
[00:07:30] Know that the, you know, these functionality is getting accepted in the market is changing so quickly. But that's not it, right? There is actually more to that. Where what we are seeing is, uh, is that the model releases are coming up at a quick Pace as well.
[00:07:44] You know, we had gpt2 which feels like yesterday or GB3, right? But it was, uh, in 2020, which laid the foundation of everything, uh, it was a model which provided those amazing conversational capabilities. But what people found was that it's not, it doesn't have good constraints around it. Good cartridge. It can get abusive
[00:08:06] But it was only 6 years back.
[00:08:08] Right. 20, uh, 22 is when GPD was released, right? And that sort of is the
[00:08:15] Is a big inflection point, where the whole industry changed, right? We saw the amazing power of what llm can do. Um, 2 GPD 5, uh, just, uh, uh, in in the last few months, right? And it's not just about the models, right? The models are becoming bigger, they're becoming faster. They are becoming better, uh, more powerful. Uh, I think that, you know, number of models have kind of, uh, got ahead of the trillion parameter Mark. There is also all of these other things right where things like instruct GPT uh which was foundational.
[00:08:50] Uh research that showed how the models can follow instructions. And that's just from 2022, 4 years back.
[00:08:57] Right. AI agent Frameworks.
[00:09:00] 3 years back.
[00:09:02] Um, mCP, uh, reasoning models, which is really providing the foundation of how the models are able to determine, uh, which step to take the Adaptive capabilities of models and H into agent, uh, just last year, right? So the rate of change of how the technology is changing,
[00:09:20] Is is, you know, so quick now, why does it matter?
[00:09:27] So there is too much, right? I just heard that in a session yesterday. Uh, where, uh,
[00:09:34] You know, many of uh, the attendees they were saying, it's just, you know, too much change and we have data that supports it. 59% of Enterprises are saying they cannot
[00:09:45] Keep up with the pace of change.
[00:09:47] Right. On top of it.
[00:09:49] 6 56% of it. Teams are saying,
[00:09:53] That it is overwhelming.
[00:09:56] and,
[00:09:59] With all of this, right? When there is too much change happening, too much Innovation to keep up with, um, there are 74% of organizations who are saying that they are going with the first preferences are SAS solution.
[00:10:14] and I feel like,
[00:10:17] The number. It speaks for itself. I think I won already.
[00:10:21] Well, I mean, it's closed. I might agree with you that the pace of change is very rapid, and that folks would love it if their SAS vendors would go and help them with it.
[00:10:30] By the way, a lot of this isn't actually specific to to AI. It's a general for, for across all of the, um, all of their use cases. But there's that minor question about whether or not any of that is able to deliver and deliver faster and better. If you build versus you, you buy. Um, certainly, when looking at, at the solutions out there, a lot of folks actually do struggle with getting value from their Genai tools. So, in this, um, uh, 1 survey that we had only 22% were actually reporting that. They got a significant value from the geni tools, um, and uh, at least in my inquiries, and most of the examples that I see most of the really transformative ones are ones where they didn't actually buy a solution, they went in and built it themselves, and we see some of this in our service.
[00:11:15] Data as well. It says, in gaps example of this when we asked folks well, so what value do you receive from your internal llm? That number goes up from 22% to 52% of things. So, yes, we would love it if the, uh, if uh, the solutions that are out there would help us adapt to that change rapidly. Um, but there is that question of uh, are they able to and so many of the use cases and the examples of this being there? But where, where sort of missing the, the elephant in the room which is just the fact that there are actually not that many off-the-shelf, uh, AI solutions that you can that you can buy that are out there. When you go downstairs, you'll see tons and tons of vendor offerings that are there. But how many of those
[00:12:00] Are actually AI Solutions. Uh, there might be a few down there. I hope there are probably too few and and certainly when you look at the market more broadly a lot of them actually look like you know Professional Services firms offering accelerators with a high degree of customization. A lot of those aren't really off-the-shelf available platforms and software. Um, and even those are usually only this tiny small share of the use cases that your organization wants to go after. So it's like, well, we might want to buy, but the reality is, yeah, there's not enough to buy. We are forced to go in and build these
[00:12:34] Oh, I apologize. This is the same 1. All right, look like shell, you're not ready to give up. I would say that you just have to go down to the exhibit hall um to see. But let's move on. Let's go to the
[00:12:45] bound to, and my my turn to, uh,
[00:12:49] You're cheating. All right. Hands on the scale there.
[00:12:52] um,
[00:12:54] Yes, as a costume capabilities, well, 1 thing to, that's important to take in mind, is that, you know, all of this Innovation and Rapid expansion is actually based on of Open Source. It was then 2017. Paper attention is all you need that went in and kicked off all of this and the reason why these vendors are able to go in and turn out both the models as well as their offerings is again because so much of this is open source based so many of the platforms that are being off or the solutions that are being offered. Actually, when you scratch beneath the surface are offering the same open-source Frameworks, I will I will.
[00:13:30] I want to correct that part shell if you don't mind. No sure. Um there was this idea that if Google had to open source that paper today or if they were talking about that, they probably won't do it.
[00:13:40] But yes, Fair Point. Yeah but we might not be having an AI Revolution if they didn't do it as well. So the 2 of them I think are are very much intertwined but yes, agreed to it and I would also acknowledge that they that doesn't mean that they aren't also providing a lot of Integrations and a very and ease of use on top of this so that should not be ignored as well.
[00:14:01] Um, but when it comes to the cost side of things, um, I don't know about you but in my increase, people are complaining about the licensing cost of their AI Solutions a lot. And I have yet to have an inquiry where somebody is is complaining about the cost of the
[00:14:15] AI team, maybe that's coming. I mean, they still they, I do remember all of those increase when they were complaining about the cost of data scientists so that we might just not have gotten there yet. But right now, what folks are complaining about to me. Anyway, is the is the cost of the solutions and not the cost of the internally developed teams. It's also 1 of those where right now, I mean, so much of this is being massively subsidized by the investors. So yes, it might be cheap to use off-the-shelf LMS right now because again, they're being priced far beneath the actual cost of delivery, but what is that going to be in a couple of months? A couple of years? Once the investors start becoming a lot less patient,
[00:14:55] uh, it's also the case that a lot of the costs when it comes on the build side of things are upfront
[00:15:00] Costs. They are the cost of standing up. The team is the cost of going and putting in place the platforms that you need, but your advertising. This that cost goes down for every additional use case you go after because you don't incur that 1 time cost in the same kind of way. So versus on the solution side of things where you are, paying that full cost every time over and over again. Um, there is this efficiency of scale that you can get if you do it. Well, um with your own internal teams,
[00:15:26] All right. Well, that's a tough 1 to disagree on, uh, but I have a solid argument there. Uh, I'm sure you all have seen, uh, the MIT Nanda report news that came last year, uh, where it said that 5% of custom AI reaches production.
[00:15:42] Right. That made big headlines. It was pretty sensational.
[00:15:45] But as we start scratching the surface and actually looking at the data what it said this number was based on uh if you were using Uh custom AI, right? So that's a keyword for out of the box llms.
[00:15:59] Uh, where uh, there was no customization involved. That number was actually higher, uh, at 40%
[00:16:07] So the build side of it, where you will often uh think about a custom llm, that's where uh the failure rates were much higher.
[00:16:14] I would say that is easier on the, on the build side of things, there's definitely going to be harder. But do you remember that, a whole lot of the custom developed ones are actually using those general purpose llms and then there are embedded or tasks tasks based Ai and you know the arguably on the solution side as well.
[00:16:30] But I quibble. Well, so here is another uh data point for you. Right? Where CFOs said that uh, that they have very low confidence in the ability to deliver in a, in a cost-effective way in their organizations
[00:16:45] Right. And uh the 61% was the number that came up in a survey which is, which I think it speaks for itself. Um and often that reflects more on the the the ability to build or deliver a solution.
[00:17:01] No CFO is completely.
[00:17:02] The cost of those co-pilot licenses that they've they've agreed to for the entire organization as well.
[00:17:07] All right.
[00:17:09] All right, well, let's let's let's keep on talking on that 1. Um, but I want to show
[00:17:15] Uh, I will again Point towards that 61% number there.
[00:17:19] Oh yes.
[00:17:21] Yep.
[00:17:23] Well, so numbers aside, right? I mean numbers, I would say, you know, these are facts and the facts speak for themselves but I would also say that as we as you start thinking about what does it take to build, um, and it, it needs so many different roles, right? It almost. Looks like you're setting up an kind of an Avengers team for your it, right. You need, uh, data scientists, you need data Engineers, AI Engineers, um, Architects. It's like, it's, it's a whole group of team and these roles are expensive. I mean, these are really experts you need, you know, think about um, kubernetes.
[00:18:00] Is, um, capabilities, right? Not easy to find those people and all of those. Um, as you start adding up, um, there are, um, lot of money.
[00:18:11] And so it may, you know, buy I I agree right token costs are adding up, the products are not cheap.
[00:18:18] but,
[00:18:20] This is not cheap, either a lot of it depends on your how much scale you're doing this. I don't know. Um, if you're going to advertise these back, you definitely need to be delivering these and you have your application actually working at at I scale.
[00:18:31] But let's move on to the next round control and flexibility. Let's try this 1 more time.
[00:18:40] Well, the this is a, I think a very, very key element of this is a key reason.
[00:18:45] For why you would be looking to build. And it is that well, you know, their vendor risk is real especially in this in this world of Rapid change over there being able to select your winners here and being able to commit to that is extraordinarily difficult. When you know, the the uh, the vendor offerings are moving at such Breakneck speed. We're also seeing instances where folks have gone in and made bets on vendors where that hasn't worked out. Well, uh, you can look at the example of McDonald's, where their, um, looking to, they their attempts at going in and having, uh, AI based, um, drive-through ordering was set back by 2 to 3 years courtesy of choosing the wrong vendor on this. So it was a matter of deliver or on the Builder, AI bankruptcy case where, uh, where folks were not able to get
[00:19:30] Get access to their code, their websites. Um, you name it Minor Detail. The fact that they were pretending to use a generative AI there when they actually were using humans, but
[00:19:38] I see that's another story. I see to that 1. Yes no indeed there's also this element whereby, you know to what degree. Let me go into the next 1 actually I think this 1's illustrates it better um to what degree. It's not just a question of whether or not these Solutions are able to meet your needs. But it's whether they will ever be able to meet your needs. I mean these Solutions deliver value, that is very specific on your data, on your own systems. There are specific to your own strategies and that are embedded in your own processes. And at a fundamental level. These look very different from organization to organization.
[00:20:15] Ation. Do we think that our Genai and a genetic AI Solutions are going to be able to cope with that uniqueness and uh and differentiation that your organizations require? And if we look historically, well, we've seen exactly the same thing happen on the machine learning side of things. If you go back to 205 machine learning models, as a service was a very, very touted thing, and it never took off. And the reason why I never took off was because, you know, we, our data was different, our systems were different, our objective functions were different, our processes were different. There's every reason to believe that history is going to repeat itself, um, when it comes to, uh, Gena and a genetic AI,
[00:20:55] I feel like you're making the case for me, somehow their shell.
[00:21:00] Clearly. Okay, well, so products, uh, I mean there, it's part of the learning curve, I see, you know, many of those hiccups, uh, the examples that you shared, yes, you know, there were some fraud, there is a lot of AI washing happening. There are, you know, always, you know, some bad apples. Uh, but the products have improved. And, um, today's genii products, they offer you a lot of, uh, those capabilities. Lot of customizations where you have a choice of LMS, right? They're not locked into 1. LM uh they offer you a lot of connections integration capabilities as well um as well as uh the keeping up with a lot of the Innovations especially integrating with mCP a2a. Uh these things are not easy to implement especially because of the latency challenges and so many moving pieces in there.
[00:21:45] Which is where the products are actually able to adapt these, uh, faster because of, you know, that's what they're working on. That's what they specializing on. Um, and on top of it, I would add is, um, where they are doing a lot of the specialized work as well, like, which some of which could align with your industries. Uh, I'm seeing Innovation coming up in the space of uh vertical agents, right? They're building these specialized models for you, um, as well as um, you know, they are ahead in Innovation, right? That's all they're doing.
[00:22:15] Um so you don't have to do that. Now if you're okay with proliferating the silos in your organization, that's just fine.
[00:22:22] Yeah, but then, you know, there is there's more to it, right? It's like you have to do your homework. There is no shortcut here. Uh, there are
[00:22:30] Good products. But if you do your homework, uh, you can Define your requirements. Well, you can say, you know, these are my, this is what I need and based on that, you look for products, which are extensible, which are adaptable, uh, you think smartly that what you need, how to find it. Uh, not all vendors are equal. Not all products are equal. Um, so, uh, if you have good requirements, you can find those matches. Uh, but it does mean that you have to do your homework, um, and then and then go look for those and there are number of aspects of here, right? Where excessive you know, extensibility configurability. Uh you know look at data privacy requirements. You know what are the terms and conditions are you know, how they treat your data? All of these are requirements that as part of your procurement process as
[00:23:15] Part of your product assessment, you can rationally, evaluate and find out the ones who are actually either ahead on the Innovation curve, or who are more responsible in building out the products.
[00:23:30] Right. Wow. So I think we should probably throw this back to you guys and see. Well, where do you guys stand on this? Have we persuaded you in 1 direction or the other?
[00:23:40] How many of you are still at the end of this? In favor of building? Please raise your hand.
[00:23:46] Ooh, good number there. Mhm. Got to you got your work. Cut out for you.
[00:23:51] All right, anybody uh or house the buy group feeling?
[00:24:00] Feeling that a good number of you guys are doing both of this, right? Is more than 100% of hands out there.
[00:24:07] Well, you can obviously see it's not an easy problem um to to break up.
[00:24:11] Yes. And so let's and I mean, this is absolutely correct. I mean you should be going in and thinking about this and there are a bunch of different factors that you should be taking into account. Here we have. Um, I think what are the the core of these ones up here from speed to delivery to the, your need for customization, your available, Technical Resources, your budget, the Strategic importance of this to your organization and last, but not in any way, shape, or form, least data sensitivity, and whether or not you are heavily regulated or not. Well, so the way I would propose to use this is if
[00:24:45] Your if geni is a differentiator for you, if it's a, if it's a Competitive Edge, that comes from this technology, um then you should think about the build side of it.
[00:24:57] Right speed's. Not as important, it's more about accuracy more about quality uh more about customization more about data privacy and it's a strategic capability that you're trying to build.
[00:25:08] Uh on the other side, if it's more about um speed, right? You want to get something out next quarter?
[00:25:16] Uh, then, and and data is not as important models. You look at as as more commodity, uh, then by is what you should choose.
[00:25:27] Hmm, and certainly did again.
[00:25:30] Depends on your own organization, your own conditions, whether or not you've got those Technical Resources and your and budget, um, and uh, your specific uh, situation there. But so with that in mind, we do have a couple of questions that can help guide you through this. Yeah, so question number 1,
[00:25:46] Is this geni capability? A long-term differentiator for your business? If the answer is no, if you're just trying to summarize HR policies, I would say that, please don't try to reinvent the wheel. Just buy a product, but if the answer is yes, then you absolutely need to. It's hard to, you can't really differentiate with, uh, with off-the-shelf. If everybody has access to the same shelf, um, in order for you to be able to differentiate, you will need to be able to go in and
[00:26:15] Squeeze out every bit of accuracy and value from the solutions that you that you are delivering and do it in a differentiated fashion. Yeah. Question. Number 2, how critical is speed to market for your business?
[00:26:27] so if your CIO committed to the board that we will have this functionality delivered by end of next quarter,
[00:26:33] then there is no way you can actually, uh, build something. You have to go and, uh, buy a product versus if you think there is, uh, you know, there is time for you to deliver that. Uh, and and that's a road map that you're able to invest in, uh, then that's where you decide to build something. You can also do the sneaky thing, and go in and buy them, learn their secrets and steal those and build your own afterwards.
[00:26:57] um, but yeah, also I mean you do
[00:27:00] Do need to be very honest with yourself about whether or not you have the technical capabilities to to execute on this. There is a lot of specialized Talent required and not just in terms of your AI engineers and data engineers and developers and data scientists. It's also the talent that you need in order to be able to, for example, stand up, that platform and integrate all of that. Um, not to mention the ah, Architects that you would probably want to have in place in order to design all of this for you. Yep. And question. Number 4, how much control do you need for your product road map? And the underlying Technologies step?
[00:27:30] So the vendor lock in is real, right? If you are going on the buy side, uh if you know if your vendor pivots you have to Pivot
[00:27:39] Versus if you think your data is specialized uh confidential. Uh you cannot share that data.
[00:27:45] Uh, your requirements are very specific uh and the product doesn't cannot deliver that in the timeline you're looking for. That's when you have to decide to build something of your own. So are we actually coming to some kind of consensus here? Some kind of agreement between the 2 of us?
[00:28:01] Looks like it. Yeah, it it does kind of it does seem like there is this this this third way and that for most sufficiently large organizations. I would say you're probably going to be looking at a make sure of this. Wouldn't you agree? Yeah. I mean the real question you need to ask is what is the right thing for that specific job.
[00:28:20] Yes. Um, I keep on thinking back to Clay Christensen and the innovator's Dilemma and his jobs to be done framework. Um, always, he never mentioned AI once and yet.
[00:28:30] It always keeps on coming up over and over again and being helpful and in every new technology that comes along. Yeah, I think we eventually have to agree on this. Uh, what you said makes sense, uh, but you know, we, uh, really enjoyed presenting this arguments to you, uh, looks like you are as divided as we are. Uh, but I'm hoping the framework gives you a way to dissect this problem, and decompose it in, coming up with a decision. Uh, we enjoyed it. I hope you enjoyed as well, and thank you so much, uh, for listening