[00:00:05] Hello, everyone. Welcome.
[00:00:09] To AI First Data and analytics in the spotlight.
[00:00:14] This presentation is a little bit different than probably all of the other sessions you'll see here at the conference. Uh, what I'm what I'm planning to do is highlight
[00:00:27] technology. Let's say that. AI first organizations are beginning or have started to implement in their Enterprises today.
[00:00:37] I'll I'll explain a bit why we've selected that Innovation or I wouldn't say Innovation while we why we've selected that technology to
[00:00:45] Highlight, I'll show you a quick demo. So if you're in the back, there's seats, you know, empty seats, feel free to move up so you can see the screen, I don't know that, you know, if you want to you you can, you don't have to, but you might have a bit of a better experience if you come up.
[00:00:59] um, I'll show you a very quick demo of
[00:01:04] 1 particular, vendor that represents that technology.
[00:01:09] I'll give you a bit of an explanation, maybe some capabilities. If you're interested that you may want to look into and then at the end of the presentation, I'll ask you to vote. So you can see that if you open if you want to participate in the voting I hope you do. You can go to conference navigator for this session. Click on the link for the voting and get
[00:01:30] Get ready, uh, to vote at the end. And so that's how this session will work, okay? Just to set expectations. And by the way, if you can't see during the session and you want to move up I will not be offended. Just move on up and you know find a seat close so you can see. Um so again what this is It's not like what I would consider to be Innovation. It's not coming from any vendor's lab. It's not the edge. We're not really looking at, you know, anything on the edge or infrastructure. This really is capability that capability sets of capabilities that we
[00:02:05] We Believe AI first organizations that are looking to deliver, you know, agentic multi-agent, systems likely have to implement over the next
[00:02:15] You know, year to 3.
[00:02:18] And so that's where we're going. I will tell you too this is a pilot session. So I'd love to hear your feedback about the structure, what you liked about it, what you think we could improve, I'd really appreciate that feedback and so I'm going to show you 4 capabilities today that aligned onto 3 front. Now you've heard a lot about context, probably already today at the conference you'll hear about it throughout the week. So I'll show you 2 vendors that represent being able to build contacts for AI for agents um because agents, you know, AI creates a generative AI creates.
[00:02:58] The next thing I'll show you is.
[00:03:00] A agentic analytics, where analytics act, I'll show you an example of that. And then finally, we know that governance is sort of the single point of failure for AI. It's necessary to drive value without trust. There is no adoption. There is no, there is no value from AI. So, I'll show you an example of sort of runtime governance that I think is super interesting as well.
[00:03:28] So why does this matter now?
[00:03:30] We see most of you have moved past experimentation.
[00:03:35] Many of you have long passed experimentation and you're well into scaling your different AI. Deployments not just traditional AI but agent you know, generative Ai and
[00:03:45] Agents even multi-agent systems. Uh, many of you are there. Uh, we also see agents reshaping Analytics,
[00:03:53] Uh it you know, analytics itself, you saw in the keynote, many organizations are on a path to get rid of their dashboards. Many of you may be on that path, many of you have may may have already done that. We'll show you an example of that. And then, of course, governance is a lagging capability. We believe, you know, current sort of traditional manual governance where we're in, you know, sort of operationalizing governance in documents really has to evolve to embedding governance, rules and behavior in agents themselves.
[00:04:26] Potentially also having a continuous.
[00:04:30] Governance during runtime. That's what I'll show you uh today.
[00:04:34] And so, just to show you where these things sit on our hype cycle. I don't know if you're familiar with the Gartner hype cycle, but we have emerging Technologies, uh, on the left hand side as they sort of enter into the market and then they get hype, hype, hype type and then as organizations start to, you know, work through the tough, you know, the tough challenges of getting something to deploy deploy at scale. It goes through the trough of dissolution. Now, that sounds really negative, but I actually think that's a great place because that means, you know, potentially that technology that capability will will ultimately be able to scale and then we get through the bottom.
[00:05:15] And then the product, uh, the plateau of productivity. That's when the majority of organizations are deploying it. Dashboards for example, are there every organization probably in this room has dashboards. And so that's what this is. So where do the organ? Where do the capabilities sit?
[00:05:31] So this was the hype cycle for 2025, okay? We're in 2026, I'll show you context. I would say since then, just in the few months context is like,
[00:05:43] The height, you know, the, the basically hyped right way way higher than what it is on this thing. But we're going to show you context we're calling it here composite semantic layer which is essentially the the semantic capabilities that you need um to build a context layer.
[00:06:00] A gentic analytics. I do think it's still hyped up there, but maybe a little further since we published this and then explainable AI. I I actually think this is still sort of maybe misplaced to be honest with you but that's what we'll show you. We'll show you AI governance, hugely popular topic, probably 1 of our most um frequent inquiries. We're going to be publishing a magic quadrant on AI governance and the next few weeks. And so, look out for that.
[00:06:27] And again, I'll try to describe for you the videos up front. I'll show you the videos.
[00:06:32] I'll show you some, I'll describe to you some capabilities that you may want to look out for the videos, go really fast. So I apologize for that because we don't want to spend time you know, with you trying to figure out what's on the screen. And then we'll
[00:06:45] Vote at the end. That's how it'll work.
[00:06:47] So again you heard in the opening keynote context is King uh, Queen president, whatever you want to call it, and there's very good reason for that, right? And you all know, this is data and analytics people. Sometimes the connection is nuanced for business people, right? We know if your business, you know, longtime business objects people or cognos framework manager package people. We know that semantics have always been important to analytics, right? We know it's important, the single source of Truth to accuracy to cost while context for AI. For generative for agents in particular, is a, is there. It's the brain of Agents, it provides proper context so that agents can behave safely.
[00:07:30] Accurately and by the way cost effectively, right? Because the less input, they need the less tokens. You need to consume uh during an agentic workflow. And so atland is our first vendor that will focus on. Um, with what I'll show you is they we start out by building and enriching a context layer from existing business context, right? So atland connects to an entire data stack, whether it's your data warehouse, or your data Lakehouse, or your bi tools or your pipelines, then they store everything into their context Lakehouse, okay? That's what I'll show you. Then it reads your existing business logic and it uses AI to
[00:08:15] At scale. And so it builds sort of a foundation layer for your context layer.
[00:08:20] And then it goes. It takes your semantic model uh to production Readiness by helping you sort of test that that um, semantic model using and simulating real business patterns and then it scores the accuracy of that surfacing, what you need to fix. And then, um, that's the difference between potentially just, you know, piloting and endless Loops of piloting to helping to move that along into production and then the Outland, um, context, uh, Lakehouse allows you then to deploy anywhere and
[00:09:00] Anywhere, meaning your your data bricks, uh, Genie clothes, snow, oh snowflake cortex through mCP, and then what it does is it learns once deployed in production, uh, and updates, the context graph graph. So let me show you now a video.
[00:09:19] So again, let's I know if if you again, if you can't see, feel free to move up, there are some spaces, I will not be offended if you move while I'm talking. So this video will show you how first atland unifies.
[00:09:33] The business context from across your organization into an Enterprise data graph, right? When users or AI agents search for data, which is what we just did. Um, it brings together, sort of the technical details, the
[00:09:45] Business, definitions the policies, the ownership regardless of where the data lives and then it connects natively to your warehouses, your lakehouses, your tools, your bi tools, and it stores it in this open sort of interoperable context lake house. And then it uses AI to automatically enrich the contacts and builds this sort of foundation for semantic models. Now, um, what you'll see is you can build an agent like a sales analyst and then atlam will suggest the right data assets and it'll build the semantic model for you.
[00:10:22] And so before deployment atlam will systematically test the model using real business queries.
[00:10:30] And then uh, to try to ensure accuracy and then it will surface the issues to fix. Um, and so finally, the tested semantic model is portable as I said earlier, and it can be used in any AI platform and then as agents operate um at lamb will continuously learn from the real-time uh interactions and make the contacts smarter over time.
[00:10:59] So that's atland as an example. I think they're here on the show floor. If you want to see it, done a little slower and more extensively. Um, so that's 1, the second context demo that I'll show you is a little bit different. It's focused on
[00:11:15] Unstructured data building context from unstructured data and this is a startup called flexor. And again, they are much focused on unstructured data. Um, but this time, uh, again, unstructured data and they have something called an AI context engine or Ace and they take Enterprise data like emails and PDFs and calls. Um, and they use it to ground agents in what they call domain intelligence and business context so they create the business context um so that your AI apps can operate, you know, accurately in live environments. So
[00:11:53] Let's take a look at what they do, so here's their AI context engine or Ace.
[00:11:59] Um,
[00:12:00] and so what you can see is flexor, is onboarding First new data types and they automatically match them with schemas
[00:12:11] and they trace every single record to its source. So you have full lineage
[00:12:16] And you'll see that there are options for masking personal information. Like, how like here they're showing how over 700,000 emails are cleaned, and they're deduped for analysis.
[00:12:27] And then what we show here is, how all the data sources are managed together and then how users can Define exactly what their data, what their agents, sorry. Should use which data their agents should use. And so they're again, improving the accuracy and reducing the cost.
[00:12:45] Cost of running that agent. And you'll also see flexors domain intelligence Hub, which ensures that if you have companies specific terminology that it's understood correctly to prevent errors.
[00:12:59] And then finally, you'll see how flexor combines the information from multiple sources and formats, it to answer complex questions, like the 1 you see, like contract status and expiry, which can be pretty complex.
[00:13:14] Um, and then at the end, you'll see just turning the unstructured data into just reliable context for answering this particular question.
[00:13:27] Again, pretty complex, question around.
[00:13:30] Contact status and expiry date. All from pulling contacts from unstructured data.
[00:13:35] Perfect.
[00:13:37] so,
[00:13:38] We talked about contacts, but what do we mean by contacts? Right? Um, and again, context is important because it helps your agents, your AI function accurately, and cost-effectively, but it really is the intersection of 3 things. It's semantics right, which is the rules, definitions metrics that you need to run the business.
[00:13:59] It's the operational state.
[00:14:01] It's the live environment, it's what's happening right now, it's the entities, the activities, the conditions that your agent has to operate in or your AI has to operate in. And then importantly, there's traceability
[00:14:15] It's the memory of what we did, what the agent did the past decisions, the past actions, the past outcomes. That's super important from a cost reduction standpoint because that means the agent doesn't have to consume the past memory over and over again, that affects your token consumption that affects your compute if you're not, if you're hosting your own agents. And so when you combine all these 3 things, you're not just building a database you're creating situational awareness for your agents. It knows the rules. It sees the current environment and it remembers past outcomes.
[00:14:52] So that's why that's important. And so when you're thinking about your context layer, you know what is it, what are the capabilities, you know?
[00:15:00] Here are some of the capabilities. You may want to look for. Remember, we said earlier, in the keynote, you may have your AI, ambition, maybe AI cautious, it may be opportunistic, it may be AI first. If your AI cautious, you're more focused on traditional passive metadata that you are defining manually, potentially in a data catalog. Uh, you are of course, defining your metrics. You have probably very manual governance, uh, control and compliance. You probably are starting to have a data catalog, which is great. Um, as you move to AI opportunistic, uh, you might enhance your semantics using augmentation, AI augmentation, you you're likely investing in data products, more heavily. Uh,
[00:15:45] You're likely using active metadata where you're automatically generating metadata from usage patterns. Uh, you might have move into more distributed governance. Uh you might have an analytics and data catalog, potentially AI model catalog, you might begin to explore the idea of ontologies and knowledge. Graphs, a metrics layer. That's reusable as part of your uh, data products, of course, data lineage impact and all analysis. Uh observability observed availability are likely capabilities, you're looking at orchestration and automation As you move into AI first, those things become more multimodal, more automated you might be begin to build out then consider an Enterprise ontology. Not
[00:16:30] Knowledge Graph continuously learning, uh active metadata Advanced Rags, streaming architecture real time potentially embedded governance.
[00:16:41] Becomes key. We'll see a little bit of that at the end. Um, and then sort of centralized agent reusable components, capability, catalog, uh, Real Time pro proactive and privacy preserving capabilities, explainability knowledge, and content Context, Engineering capabilities. So, again, things to look for, as you consider building out these capabilities, this is a representation, did any of you, uh, go to Carly's session earlier on the intelligence capabilities framework?
[00:17:11] Yeah, only a few. If I would, I would suggest replaying it.
[00:17:15] Because what we've done is laid out the capabilities that you would need at each layer of what we're calling an intelligence capabilities framework. Um, there's lots of detail behind this and we have a tool that you can use to assess vendors across the capabilities that you would need. Not just for the context layer, but here it kind of shows where the context layer fits on top of your information layer. And so just another representation. And you can see sort of AI agents, the these layers inable, agentic analytics. But also how agentic AI or AI agents actually automate and augment each of the layers and then how
[00:17:55] particularly contacts intersects with governance and trust, you'll see it in AI.
[00:18:00] Governance platform many capabilities that you might consider context. Like, what are the rules that this agent has to operate under with respect to uh regulations and compliance, and different types of policies that might be in the context layer but part of governance. Does that make sense?
[00:18:19] So on to the next 1, agenda analytics. And this is where analytics adapts to ambiguity. Right? Everyone in this room has a dashboard. Many of you are moving towards getting rid of those dashboards or will move towards that. So what are you moving towards? And so we're looking at agentic analytics, this is just 1 example. Uh, this is a company called pendo. And the example, I'm going to show you
[00:18:45] Is a sort of a churn analysis example where uh they're sort of moving beyond reporting to what we're calling perceptive analytics, using agents to perceive uh different inputs into an analysis. Uh and then auto-generate uh sort of a a a an analysis of the situation and then making specific recommendations, sometimes acting this. I'm not showing you a case of acting but making recommendations about what what our outcomes that uh you can do to intervene uh in time to make a difference in the particular decision that you need. In this case, we're focusing on churn
[00:19:23] So oh it already started. Okay, so here most teams collect a ton of data product usage.
[00:19:30] Data in particular but they still struggle to turn that into timely decisions. So here pendo uses behavioral signals like feature adoption engagement shifts usage patterns. Again this is specific to turn this use case to predict the likelihood of outcomes like churn or expansion of purchasing and it scores accounts and importantly it provides human readable explanations for why that risk or that opportunity exists. So, the team understands what's changing and what's driving it? Now, those insights are delivered directly into operational workflows, not to a dashboard. So into tools like slack and Salesforce. So it helps the team
[00:20:15] Prioritize risks or opportunities without waiting through, you know, God knows how many dashboards and. But in parallel, the product and marketing teams are automatically, engaging at risk, customers through in-app guidance, um, turning T through or targeted messaging, um, increasing the chance to intervene before a churn decision is made. So it's an example here of analytics moving beyond just basic reporting. Embedding xplan sort of explainable insight into everyday decisions while there's still time to change the outcome. And again, this same approach would apply Beyond turn. They just use a churn example here, for use cases.
[00:21:00] Is like upsell crosselle or any other, any other use case?
[00:21:03] And so, when we're looking at again, what to look for what capabilities to look for? We have a market guide for agentic, analytics within our upcoming magic quadrant for analytics and bi platforms, you will see authentic capabilities because your traditional dashboard vendors are expanding into offering agenda capabilities. And some of those are sort of what they have had, you know, conversational analytics, natural language now, gen AI enabled data, prep automated Insight, uh, data storytelling, but they've also added, uh, an agentic workflow layer embedded analytics, coding assistance, you know, automating SQL generation.
[00:21:45] Python other things.
[00:21:47] Importantly agent memory as we saw earlier, still the agent for analytics, still has to have context, um, data source connectivity, mCP, most of them now have sort of mCP connectivity function calling, of course, content management and, uh, platform Administration, but key to all of this is the depth of semantic, modeling or contacts. Um, the ability to integrate with operational systems, right to act on your behalf and definitely the maturity of Delegation and escalation mechanisms particularly as they relate to contacts and security.
[00:22:26] So that's that.
[00:22:29] So now we'll look.
[00:22:30] look at
[00:22:31] Governance. So, here is the idea that, you know, analytics no longer waits to be queried and Trust has become such a critical, uh, element for adoption for Value. I mean, you heard a lot in the keynote about from Laura Rhinehart at Cisco. I'm the 1 who interviewed her and she told me look, and I asked her. What's the number 1 thing? That's critical to AI, adoption and value. And, you know what she said, she didn't say models, she didn't even say data,
[00:23:03] She didn't say people even she said it's trust.
[00:23:07] It's trust. If we don't trust the systems, people will not use it. People will not adopt it. That's like the first order thing. So, it's super important.
[00:23:15] So the final frontier is trust, trust risk and Security Management, and this features zenity, and they're focused on governance and security for agents, particularly at runtime. So,
[00:23:27] Okay started. Yep. So this click focuses on runtime posture and risk accumulation, while agents are actively operating, so, embedded continuous monitoring. So they first, look at a Microsoft copilot, Studio agent with multiple runtime posture violations, including a scenario where an unauthorized user actually gains access to the agent. And so the clip uh highlights how this is surfaced in real time and then how remedial
[00:24:00] Ation guidance is provided. So what is this risk? And then it makes recommendations on how to remediate it.
[00:24:08] So how do you triage how do you fix?
[00:24:11] So, pretty cool.
[00:24:12] And then it looks at another case, which is a chat GPT agent with an initial build time, exposure where the agent is accessible broadly across the organization when it shouldn't be. Uh and then it accumulates multiple runtime posture and runtime threat signals. And then these signals are actually correlated in real time with critical issue uh issues that ultimately result in a sensitive data exfiltration or you know
[00:24:45] Compromise. And so what this does is walk you through the runtime timeline, as how the posture and the threat signals, sort of converge and then the resulting response actions. Uh, and so again, we included this example to show how runtime oversight goes beyond just a single alert.
[00:25:06] And demonstrating continuous supervision signal correlation and response as as risks of evolved during operation. This will become increasingly important for all agentic systems it is in, not will become, it is important. And so what capabilities are we looking for here? As I said, we're about to publish our first AI governance m,
[00:25:30] Quadrant, we have a market guide now, but our first evaluative, uh, you know, uh, sort of Market coverage, and you will see the capabilities. Pretty much that we're going to assess here. Things like AI Discovery and Registries compliance and risk management Dynamic policy, uh, uh, uh, at runtime enforcement and, uh, and vulnerability analysis, risk scoring evidence collection, interoperability audit Trails, value tracking 1 of the things that we will likely begin to see. We're not assessing at this time, but will likely begin to see is cost tracking in these things. When I talk with people, like you and clients and they say, hey our governance a lot of times, what they mean, is AI value and cost.
[00:26:15] Hacking.
[00:26:16] And so there are separate tools for that that will also cover but increasingly you'll start to see those capabilities in AI governance platforms. Um, there you go.
[00:26:27] And so here trust becomes an operational capability, that's critical. So here, what we saw we saw, you know, AI creates. We saw AI X, we saw AI governs. Um, and particularly as analytics, move closer to the work, you have to do closer to autonomy and that changes the rule, the role of humans that changes the role of cap of of of of embedded basically policy as code that you've heard, uh, many times already
[00:26:58] and so this is the intelligence capability.
[00:27:00] These framework again, I suggest you look at the session, these are the layers of the capability. So just to show you where the vendors I showed you today fit so sort of in uh, flexor is I would say between the information and the context layer because they offer, you know, multi a component of a multimodal data fabric that allows you to derive context from unstructured data you have uh atlan and I would say zenity fit in the context layer on the governance access uh you know, allowing you to derive safely derive context and then have runtime uh security enforcement and then finally pendo is probably at the interaction layer. But this framework is very helpful for you to
[00:27:45] Evaluate vendors up and down the stack, but also to see what capabilities you might need, if your AI cautious versus opportunistic versus AI first.
[00:27:55] And so what this means for you. Okay, less latency, less translation, more autonomy, more responsibility. That's what we're seeing for. AI first. And so the question is, which decisions are you ready to supervise instead of make again? What I didn't what I showed you today is not in the lab. It's not super Innovative by any chance but they are capabilities that you will likely have to consider investing in in the near near term at some point. If you're not already trying to deploy them,
[00:28:24] and so now the voting time I would appreciate it if you if you want, if you're open to voting
[00:28:30] We'd love to hear which capabilities do you think most changed how you think about analytics? Is it creating the context? Atland context from unstructured data? Is it Flex flexor? Is it a gentic analytics? Or is it the runtime AI governance from zenity and we have real-time polling? So you can see the results of the of what you're doing?
[00:28:59] So let's see how many I can't. I can't see the end, which is interesting.
[00:29:05] I don't know how many of your voting. Oh there it is. So you've got 65 people participating pretty good number and about half of you are saying. Yep. Context is King baby.
[00:29:15] Yeah.
[00:29:16] Cool. It's interesting that you didn't think the runtime 1 is uh I feel like that's so important but then I shouldn't influence your voting because I think most of you voted
[00:29:28] well I mean definitely context is King but like next to that I feel like gosh governance is going to be so important.
[00:29:35] Anyway, super interesting. Um, literally we're just at time, so I want to thank you for joining. I would love to hear your feedback again. This is more of a pilot session, we're trying to shape. And so if you have suggestions for how we can do this better, um, I would love to hear it. Uh, if there are things you liked about it, I'd also like to hear that because we'll continue to evolve um, to, to make this better and better for you. So,
[00:30:00] Thank you so much for attending and uh yeah enjoy the rest of the conference. I think um yeah thanks.