[00:00:03] Good afternoon and welcome to the session of something significant.
[00:00:10] Happening in the market.
[00:00:12] A lot of Point Solutions in the data management Market is converging and folding into unified platforms.
[00:00:21] And this session has a live poll, so if you have your smartphone please, this is the opportune time to keep it handy. Bring out the conference navigator app from Gartner and locate this session and there is a poll participation, keep it ready when it is at the right time, I will ask you to participate. And as a group, we can see where
[00:00:45] Everyone is. Okay. Thank you with that. I would like to introduce the topic.
[00:00:51] Every year, got no runs a survey and we asked the highest level of authority in an organization for data and analytics. What is your agenda, the highest priority is? Where are you investing? And so on and we found out something groundbreaking this year.
[00:01:10] 1 in 2 Chiefs officers, they say
[00:01:15] Modernizing our data landscape or the technology landscape that manages data is a primary responsibility. I want you to put a smile and look to the person in the left and say are is
[00:01:30] Are you talking about you?
[00:01:32] Come on guys, or if it is about you you can say yes. He is talking about me, you know? And that is real 1 and 2 of every data and analytics leader that we know about is looking at, how do we optimize our data and analytics technology landscape. And today, all we are going to do is 3 Simple, Things number 1. Um, what is happening in the market? How is the market evolving? Number 2? We'll talk about how can data management platforms, simplify your architectures and thirdly, oh, we are not just solving your data foundations challenge, but getting ready for AI and agentic use cases. So we'll cover all these 3.
[00:02:15] 3 things as we move on.
[00:02:17] So, first stop, how is the data management Market evolving?
[00:02:22] So the evolution story is condensed into this, slide. It all started with the the modern data stack that gave organizations the ability to pick and choose the best of breed Solutions 1 for your data warehouse. 1 for your data Lake, 1 for integration 1, for cataloging 1, for lineage and name it. You were able to pick the tool of your choice. Now that gave you choice but ultimately you subscribe to something. Unknown, how do we put these different technology pieces to
[00:03:00] Together. And this is where your architectures started to become complex. And then came data fabric early 2000s, thinking of a layered architecture later in the session. I'm going to expose how to understand the data fabric, text sandwich, and what are the different layers. So we thought the fabric was the next best thing. So from point solutions to a layered architecture,
[00:03:26] But as a Gartner analyst I have the privilege of listening to many data and analytics leaders. In as much as people love the idea of fabric, they fail to implement it themselves. 2 Reasons 1 systems integration is a top Challenge and organized
[00:03:45] Ational metadata maturity was very weak. In other words, they were unable to actively turn their ecosystems into an engine that can recommend better use cases for them. So it is at the cusp of this state. The market is unveiling, a new category of platforms. Got no calls it. The data management platforms which is the topic of today's discussion by the way, this is not going to be the end State. The end state is going to be a little bit more open and dynamic in nature where I need to check out certain components of this platform and to bring in a different player more.
[00:04:30] Or adapting to Open Standards such as Open Table formats. Open lineage open semantic interchange and that is the future State. Not a slightly further down. Let's say by 2030. You are likely to realize that benefit but for today, your converged data management platforms. They are becoming the mainstream. So
[00:04:53] the same slide if I were to give you
[00:04:56] Break it down into different Market categories. Every single box that you see here makes up the software category for data management.
[00:05:06] This Market there are 6 categories of these markets. They collectively make up over 150 billion US dollars in.
[00:05:15] Software Revenue, I'm not including services or anything else. Just the software Revenue makes up that much for those 6 pillars from data integration data quality, metadata management Master data managed, uh, Master data, management data, persistence, and data governance, execution,
[00:05:33] There are over a thousand vendor skues out there in as much as that gives you a better choice. Now, the integration complexity is very difficult. Now I'm going to show you in what different ways. This Market is folding and converging. First stop is at the persistence layer and we have witnessed how you no longer need to invest on a data lake or architecture then a data.
[00:06:00] Warehouse are. And so on lake, houses are fast emerging as a classic example, covering the whole of the persistent stack, some of the vendors, for example, like data bricks. They even off offer operational, database capabilities within their Lakehouse platforms and so on. So that is an example of the first degree of convergence. When you have the highest data gravity in 1 place, the second leverage, if it is not at the persistence level, it is at the metadata and governance level.
[00:06:33] Gartner has 2 magic quadrants sitting and covering this area 1 for metadata Management Solutions, another for data and analytics governance platforms.
[00:06:44] A lot of.
[00:06:45] Overlapping vendors in some cases, same vendor products are being assessed for different. Use cases, covering from data quality, to metadata to governance, um, all these capabilities being Blended together. This is also something already viable. The third category of convergence, which is close to. My heart, is your data fabric layer now.
[00:07:08] If you see carefully, excluding the persistence layer, all the other 5 layers and adding to that DNA governance platform capabilities and app. Integration application integration capabilities fused into 1 platform. This is what Gartner calls as the data management platform and we are going to look at
[00:07:30] That representative vendors in a very uh uh few moments. And then we'll talk about some of these things. Um now lastly there is yet another very super ambitious State. There are some vendors who say oh we give you everything collectively into 1 unified platform experience.
[00:07:49] Such as Microsoft for fabric sap for their business data Cloud. They say from data to analytics to AI everything infused. There is a lot of uh you know uh functional capabilities which could be missing in the big state but this is how the industry is coming together and different capabilities are colliding and converging. So the takeaway from the first
[00:08:15] segment is
[00:08:17] it is no longer viable to invest in point Solutions, many small categories, like data, lineage even data, virtualization data preparation. They are all being absorbed into features of large-sized platforms, and that is ongoing at the moment as we move on. Now, you might ask me, Robert. All of this is good.
[00:08:41] What is it for me as a data and analytics leader in my organization who is interested in data. Now, I'm going to take it down to your organizational level in the second key issue, where we are going to talk about. How can you adopt, these type of converged platforms and simplify your architecture.
[00:09:00] To begin, I want to give a reference architecture for data management.
[00:09:05] Take a deep look here, you're looking at the progression of data from the left to the right. How do you acquire data?
[00:09:13] How do you organize your data? And how do you deliver your data for various use cases and there are 9 different components from your data sources? How do you capture data? How do you store them? How do you process them? How do you bring data? Ops capabilities, for continuous integration, and deployment capabilities, enable data access data, observability, and so on.
[00:09:37] And sandwich that with your governance capabilities, do we have sensitive data there is it? And who is
[00:09:45] The owner, What policies should be added and overlaid. And lastly, looking at metadata capabilities, too. Now this is the time for you to think about your own architectures. How many tools do you have? How many different solutions you have? Please pick up your uh, uh, conference navigator app and fill in the live poll. I'll give you 30 seconds so that we can see the results. Uh, as such
[00:10:11] Keep a good count and we have some findings to share as well.
[00:10:19] We are starting to see the polls come through.
[00:10:23] Okay.
[00:10:25] 5.
[00:10:26] 4 3. 2, 1 gone. Okay.
[00:10:30] so, we seem as a group today, think that, in your organization, the most dominant number is between 6 to 10 different solutions,
[00:10:40] we have connected overall worldwide, and we found out on an average. Uh, Enterprise has a dozen different data Management Solutions. So that's a lot of complexity and that is what we are trying to simplify. And like I said, this idea of convergence is not just coming from 1 or 2. Clients, we see that from a global CIO to Chief data officers to uh, Chief Architects and many, many parties, you know, 1 of the, uh, biggest ones I want to, uh, uh, bring to your attention, is the 1 on the bottom, right?
[00:11:15] Uh the head of supervisory Technologies, they say it as a single system for data and AI. How do we do that?
[00:11:23] And on top, if you look at the chief Architects, ask the possibility of 1 platform for the whole of DNA environment. And for the past 2 years we have been tracking many such end user demands to simplifying their data and analytics footprint. And that is the primary reason. What we are looking at
[00:11:43] At the start I said I'm going to show you what is the data fabric technology sandwich here it is. If you're looking for 1, good picture from this session, this is a good slide to take a picture about. Now, what makes up a data fabric architecture? Like I said it is it stop.
[00:12:00] With the persistence layer at the bottom.
[00:12:02] Then knowing, what data do you have? What is the meaning of the data? The the metadata and the knowledge layer that wraps up your persistence layer then how do I integrate data from different places into this persistence layer? How do I transform, how do I orchestrate both inbound and outbound from these platforms? That's the next layer. And then you think about governance overlays you think about observability capabilities are the governance policies applied correctly. So you bring those observability views as well. Then you think about how do I activate the metadata and drive better recommendations for my domain specific users, what data is most suitable for what use case, how do we
[00:12:45] Identify and recommend them, and lastly self-service data preparation and data product delivery layer. So that's what Gartner calls as the data fabric, Tech sandwich and I put a small dotted line. If you notice carefully, uh, because your persistence layer need not be centralized you. You know, I know many clients who have, uh, AWS cloud and Azure cloud and on-premises who have invested on Snowflake and data bricks. So, as an example you are, you are less likely to find and invest on 1, single Lakehouse offering for persistence. Your data is going to have multiple gravities and your architectures are going to be heterogeneous in nature now therefore what makes the best sense.
[00:13:30] Is all the other layers of the fabric if they can be fabricated into 1 platform that becomes a single Central Hub of your architectures supported by many applications. Many lake houses and many agents and users who can feed who can consume insights with the possibility. Also, to have its own persistence layer, that's the data management platforms Market. We are talking about and with that said, I'm ready to show you how Gartner perceives this Market. There are about 30 vendors that we track in this market category they usually fall into 3 categories. The first 1 is your app providers. Um, like I called out earlier example.
[00:14:15] uh, um, Salesforce
[00:14:18] They acquired Informatica. Uh, they have the Salesforce data Cloud Vision, they want to make sure data is created and lives within Salesforce with the ability to bring non Salesforce data into their platform, so that you can run all your analytics and Ai and operational use cases. Just within Salesforce, that's the driver for an app provider the same. You can see with hyperscalers. For example, if I were to pick Microsoft, they offer Fabric in the past, you could have been using powerbi, but when you go through a license renewal, you get a bigger platform called fabric with capacity units. Now, you can choose to use the full spectrum of fabric but where
[00:15:00] Very soon, you will be increasing your consumption and therefore, your workloads need bigger heavier processing power, and so on. So the cloud service providers, they want not just a piece of the pie, they want the whole pie, everybody is there now, the most compelling part of the equation is your independent, uh, software vendors. This is where because you're going to have multiple applications, you're going to have multiple, uh, clouds. Anyway, um, your independent softwares you are going to choose 1 preferred Enterprise wide data management platform, as a strategic partner who will help you to orchestrate your data across multiple endpoints from a, an issue to
[00:15:45] Informatica to precisely to pallante click, this is the dominant story, every vendor that I know about, like I said, we are connecting with more than 30 vendors. We are studying their product portfolio, their adoption rates and so on. That's where the biggest Strife at the moment is now what is the takeaway from this section?
[00:16:07] By serving as a single unified control. Plane, over distributed data. Uh, gravity's, you can simplify your architectures. That's the biggest takeaway now. So far in the first 2 sections, I explained to you in the first section. What is happening in the market. Second, we try to apply that to your organizational State. Third, I don't want
[00:16:30] Want you to stop just by thinking data foundations. Let's go beyond data into the AI specific world. Now this is where uh, a lot more Investments are actually happening in organizations. Not many are just interested in data foundations, they want data foundations plus plus, we will talk about what those additional uh use cases and Investments are
[00:16:55] To introduce, I want to introduce a, uh, a framework, uh, gottner. We created this framework called the AI ready data, framework, it has 3 pillars. How do you align your data? To the use case? Use case that you're working and make sure your data is represented
[00:17:15] Ative of the use case. That's number 1. The first pillar, the second pillar is how do you continuously validate and verify that your data remains successful for the AI use cases? That's the qualify pillar. The third pillar is the governance pillar. You have governance mandates. You have many, uh, AI, uh, life cycle demands that make sure your data is continuing to remain fit for purpose. And that's where the governance recommends also come in. So, what I did, I took that pillar and I broke down that a capabilities level. If you were to use a technology, what should be the technology capabilities for creating an alignment of data to AI?
[00:18:00] Use cases and those they are number 1 data accessibility number 2 Data, semantics number 3 data, accuracy trust and so on. So I created this Library, that's number 1. Then I brought out what are the capabilities offered by these data management platforms that we are talking about and I group them into 4 categories, on the left is your traditional set of data, Foundation capabilities, support for daily persistence, integration quality data Ops pH Ops and creating a unified platform experience that's foundations.
[00:18:34] Now, like I said foundations plus plus what comes after the this is where the sweet spot is.
[00:18:41] The first set of capabilities is to enrich.
[00:18:45] the semantics of your data, semantics means meaning
[00:18:49] So far in data foundations, you concerned about the structure of data, the syntax of data, the interfaces between systems, but now you're starting to look into the purpose of data. What does it mean in your business context? For example, you could be an insurance company processing claims and that's where these data elements are actually sitting you come into that set and
[00:19:13] Data management platforms that offer built-in Knowledge. Graph capabilities are better equipped to enrich your semantics. That's a very compelling capability. And secondly, you can also move from a passive catalog to activating your
[00:19:30] Metadata to driving better insights. For example, our commercial users. They benefit from these set of data products. You bring out that insights which may be a common knowledge to 1 of your uh best data Architects or Enterprise Architects. But now the system is commoditizing that knowledge because it is studying the operational metadata that's the second. Use case the third use case is just because your technology is centralized your work need not be centralized. You can enable your business, domains set up, different workspaces. Give them the necessary responsibilities, where they create products. They publish those products, they service those products with service level agreements and contracts for
[00:20:15] Somebody else in your organization to consume them and so on and marketplaces are becoming a much more compelling part of data management platforms. And also application development, say you you are dealing with a supplier risk analysis, use case. And now you want to take an action when you make a discovery you you now have the ability to build an interface directly such as snowflake offers a streamlit capability to build and interface a web space web-based interface and so on uh pallante offers these type of capabilities, Informatica offers these capabilities to build your application directly on top of the data and and so on. So these are emerging domains
[00:21:00] Specific capabilities, and lastly, creating an agentic automation experience. And this involves the ability to build data agents. Agents are autonomous or semi-autonomous piece of software. It's a piece of code,
[00:21:17] Which has learning capabilities just like a human. You you add a new Junior developer into your uh into your uh data and analytics team and they're going to learn how to connect with system. A with system. We have to move data, how to transform data, how to catalog it, how to create our own book. Just the same way, these agents have the memory, they have the ability to learn, you can train them. Your data Engineers are going to be
[00:21:45] Training these agents for building pipelines and so on. So that's a new set of capabilities and model integration. You're talking about large language models, you may have chosen say anthropics. Uh Claude or openai or Microsoft's, copilot or Amazon Bedrock, irrespective of which large language model is your Preferred Choice. You want the ability to safely, blend your data with the large language model of your choice and the data management platforms. They deliver that experience, lastly, building rag, applications retrieval, augmented generation, such as you want to ask a natural language. Question over your data structured and unstructured and I know of many Gartner clients for example.
[00:22:30] Help their customer service agents to look at legal documents to many other things. At the same time, different types of data in a claims processing. Use case, they are able to service their customers much more better because they have the ability to access multiple types of data and respond. Uh, very easily to customer complaints and so on. So I, I have done 2 Baseline, so far now, here comes the sweetest part, bringing them together. So on the right hand side, you are seeing uh the AI ready uh data framework. And on the left hand side, you have the data management platform capabilities lined up. And what you're trying to do is you're curating your data and servicing and getting it ready for AI.
[00:23:15] Readiness. You're also connecting data and building insights, for example, BDO, their Tax. Consultants in the UK, they help organizations to claim tax credits. If you are investing, let's say into R&D into developing something related to AI, for example, the UK government, it gives you a lot of tax breaks and benefits and video Consultants. They help you to claim that money back in, in sort of paying taxes to the government. Um, so they were able to build a connected experience using a knowledge graph. That helps to connect disconnected patterns within their data which otherwise is non-obvious to those consultants in some cases. Okay, these
[00:24:00] your particular reasons, uh, when uh, when the tax claims or, uh, not properly described for what type of research it is,
[00:24:10] They are claiming under claiming on taxes, so which means it becomes a Consulting opportunity. Also for them to help their clients serve better. That's an example of driving insights by connecting data points from different parts of your business and to help you win. Uh, uh, Toyota also is able to enable their business, domains become self-sufficient in servicing their data for driving their own use cases, as they build and publish data products, manage the contracts. They are able to balance between, um, exploratory use cases and production use. Cases, much more actively
[00:24:45] And lastly wpp. It's a media company in the UK. Uh, they they have built uh uh uh chat with data or talk to your data type experience. Not just relaying upon fixed business, intelligence reports, but the ability for business users to interact with data. Why is my sales in this region? Uh, higher than another region. Is there a coincidence? Or was there a marketing campaign where we're giving discounts at that time? What is the driver behind? You can ask these type of questions, um, which which is, uh, 1 of the use cases that you're able to innovate and deal with multi structured data and and and drive those business insights. So now bringing it all together,
[00:25:30] So when you are able to drive the better connectedness and context of your data and give the trusted guidance, you're able to, uh, get your data ready for AI, use cases. And my casing point is how data management platforms, offer those capabilities and how they can help you drive better. So net-net, you have heard me, talk about the 3 key issues what is happening in the market, how can you simplify your architectures? And lastly how can you also go beyond data Foundation, into AI, specific data techniques. Now,
[00:26:04] The core of the message is simplifying your architectures.
[00:26:09] You do not start by decommissioning your systems on day 1. So how do you plan your strategy? That's
[00:26:15] What you're seeing here, the action plan covers you what you can do on day 1, when you go back to your offices, let's say Monday. You can number 1, begin to take an inventory of what data Management Solutions do we have.
[00:26:28] And then break it down at capabilities level. What capabilities vendor a is offering when the B is offering. And I know I've forgotten a client who did this exercise and they found out in their scenario, they could be saving several millions of Euros. That was a European client because they had overlapping product capabilities for the same set of features certain teams would use product, a certain part of other organization would use product B, but they were losing out on on. They were paying
[00:27:00] For duplicated capabilities. So you bring those things to light, then you need to build a business case. How do we rationalize our Target State? Don't start with migration build your, your business case. What is the target State platform? I'm going to invest, let's say on 1 independent software vendor and let's say 1
[00:27:31] And as you build your, net new workloads, in solving the business outcomes within the platform.
[00:27:38] You you develop your skills, you know, for the team. What kind of new skills do we need to impart to our uh to
[00:27:45] Who are developers to our business users. Don't leave your business users behind. Now this experimentation stage will take you between 6 to 12 months, very, very easily so far. You have not buy migrated anything and then you think about migration and you migrate only about top 10 percentage of your workloads into the end State. Everything else will have a natural death in the old environment. Never try to migrate everything over. And lastly, you try and decommission your old ecosystem and we have a ton of research available as well. Um, and, um, you know, come and speak to Gartner analysts. Uh, many of us are here. We are here to assist you. Uh, simplify your architectures as you are, exploring and evaluating build.
[00:28:30] The right technology selection, use cases for your data management, use cases, both for foundations building. The semantics enabling your domains and leading all the way to AI. Use cases. Thank you very much for your time today. Thank you.