[00:00:15] Thank you, everyone. My name is Nate novasol. And I'm, I'm an analyst with Gardner and I've covered all things managing the data analytics function or program. Uh so that includes data strategy, governance, literacy or models Talent showing the value of the program, things of that nature. And here, we're going to talk about the state of data analytics and 2026. So something that's right up my alley.
[00:00:39] We are here leading at the Forefront of data analytics and there's never been a better time to be a data analyst.
[00:00:45] Analytics leader.
[00:00:46] And yet, there is this sense that we might be exposed in some way.
[00:00:51] There's this jungian idea that there's a common dream or theme in people's dreams where they feel like they're presenting to people in their underwear. Um, now, fortunately, I have never had that concern. Um, I have more worries about saying the same thing to people. I've said before, because I talked to so many people every year and may not remember everyone, and that's really embarrassing. But this Arc Type really focuses on the idea of vulnerability. It's a, it's an archetype or theme of vulnerability inadequate, not able to face the challenge.
[00:01:25] The ability of insecurity, the idea that maybe you don't deserve to be there or someone on.
[00:01:30] Also might deserve it instead of you.
[00:01:32] And then there's the idea that you might not have control the lack of control over the world around you especially when it comes to things, like, culture change, and what it comes to things like uh, AI adoption and other elements, it can feel like a lot of its outside your control. And we're going to tackle these directly today by focusing on the things that you can do as a DNA leader to help drive your function forward.
[00:01:58] But what situation are we in? Let's start there.
[00:02:01] Well, DNA leaders, many of them 72% were higher to act as change agents on an inherited, messy function. I love that whoever, you know, DNA folse out there, love that survey question.
[00:02:15] That was asked, did you inherit a messy function? Yes, or no? You know, that's a weird weird survey question, but there it is and out of those. Um, uh, also out of those folks that were surveyed, 61% said that they had received change from the executive leadership around their strategy.
[00:02:34] And so, if you combine those 2 things, it can feel like you're walking in tight rope, right? You have to drive change.
[00:02:39] And yet you are.
[00:02:41] I don't want to say the victim but the recipient of change let's call it that.
[00:02:45] And so you have to balance those 2 effects. Now what do people do in the situation where they're facing extreme change? They usually try to stick with what they know, you know? They're they're a rock right? What's what makes them safe? What helps
[00:03:00] Be more predictable. But if you look here, unfortunately, the problem with that particular approach in this situation is that safe is risky. I'm sure you've seen it on LinkedIn. A million times. The average tenure of a cdao is somewhere around 2 and a half years. It's just shy of 3 years. It varies a little bit and I'm sure you've seen that data point before they always go. Ooh, scary means the cdao.
[00:03:23] Might not last that long.
[00:03:25] And this is 1 of the reasons why, you know, show value or you're out and I personally I found in my experience that cdao have about 18 to 24 months to start showing value or else the question is going to come as to what you're doing. And so when with AI breathing down, everyone's next, to get that done. Um, to help
[00:03:45] Show competitive differentiation there. That's safe. Is in fact, risky.
[00:03:51] So we're encountering all this change. The question becomes, what do we actually do to address this change? Well, we asked folks if they were ready for the Mandate that they were given and unfortunately only 12% were fully prepared for the mandate
[00:04:06] Um you can see good news is is that less than 1% was not prepared at all. So that's really good news. So everyone's kind of in the middle there, you see about half of folks said that they needed some support versus this 12% significant in the 28% minimal, so that's good news, but only 12% felt fully prepared to carry out their mandate given the change in strategic Direction.
[00:04:30] Coming from their leaders.
[00:04:31] So, a little bit of a difficult situation. Now, the question is, well, why is that or what's causing that? What's behind that? Well, if you look at this, let's take a look at this, uh, data point here, 42% of respondents when they said what was in their traditional scope of response or sorry when they said what was in their scope of responsibilities for data analytics said that they had pretty much a kind of a traditional set. So when they answer the questions, they cover strategy and operations risk and governance, technology and execution, but didn't do a lot in Ai and many of you may know,
[00:05:02] The CIO might, um, hire a head of AI and then you have a cdao and a CIO and a head of AI and a ciso, and a digital officer and I can keep going on and on with people who want to be involved in Ai and I could probably name.
[00:05:15] For another 20 minutes and still have people that might possibly be part of it. And so there are a lot of people who might be involved. So the cdao playing it safe might stick with the traditional responsibilities or as possible as I mentioned, the CIO might have hired someone and so it's not in their responsibilities.
[00:05:31] However, 58% of course do have the expansion of responsibilities to AI. So that's good news. Because DNA we found in our research I think was last year that
[00:05:42] Uh the DNA uh, leader. So the cdao, taking a leadership role in AI didn't even have to be the leadership role, just a leadership role led to a significant Improvement or increase in outcome attainment from their AI initiatives. So the cdio was a valuable part whether
[00:06:00] Or not. They were actually the leader or not. So having this expansion arguably is not just
[00:06:06] Useful and relevant but it's also uh borderline necessary for success. And so you want to look at this and go. Well, maybe everyone should be like this again. Every organization is different. Maybe they're not being the leaders in Ai and that's fine. You want to adapt to what your organization needs. But there's something telling about the fact that first of all, 58% of folks have expanded but also in our CDC EO survey, we found that um uh, AI was the number 1 disruptor in the industry. And the number 1 thing that they were worried about factoring in above digital and all kinds of other trends that were happening. And so it's on the top everyone's minds, but
[00:06:45] DNA and AI leadership and business leadership.
[00:06:50] So hopefully this offers a nice compass for you as to where you can focus in these areas. You see here with the risk and governance piece. Uh, DNA governance quality risk with the strategy operations, strategy, and operating model, uh, with technology and execution engineering architecture, Etc. And then with ai ai governance, uh, AI strategy and delivery of AI Solutions. And again, that might be a partnership, you might have a head of AI, you might have other individuals that is perfectly fine. Again, I say a leadership role, doesn't have to be the leadership role, but please use this as a good starting point for the fundamental components for how you can build
[00:07:30] Out.
[00:07:31] These data analytics capabilities over time and your organization and and carve the path forward pave. The path forward uh for AI value.
[00:07:41] So what's in our way?
[00:07:44] Now, I've seen this for many, many years and I can tell you that it doesn't change too much, so budget will always be an issue, literacy will always be an issue. Strangely, I don't actually don't see culture here, culture is an issue for like 5 years straight. So the fact that I don't see it on here is kind of a surprise to me. Maybe that's a rolled up into literacy and some other pieces which is fine. Um, and then you have their like Innovation spending and the change in strategic priorities, being disruptive, as we mentioned, just a moment ago.
[00:08:12] But the thing about this is that
[00:08:15] Uh, I mentioned a lot of. These are like perennial issues. You know, no, 1 ever has enough budget, right? You know, everyone could always use more money. They'll always fight for more resources and things of that nature. So,
[00:08:24] While it might be a challenge to success, um, it's not really an excuse.
[00:08:29] Not to deliver, uh, not to deliver value or impact.
[00:08:32] And so let's talk about what we can do in this environment to deliver on outcomes as part of the state of DNA for 2026.
[00:08:41] The first thing we can do is use our budget effectively. So yes, we would like to have more, of course, everyone would. But are we maximizing or optimizing? What we do with it, as as? Uh, recently, as a few years ago, I remember talking to DNA leaders about DNA prioritization.
[00:09:00] And, you know, I came from the, IT world. I advise midsize Enterprise cios, I advise heads of applications heads of pmo heads of va. Um, and I can tell you that prioriza, um, I'm sorry not data project, uh, pipeline intake. Um, prioritization process and governance process. And then when I move over to DNA, I took that process with me and said, hey, are you doing this prioritization? Are you doing intake? Are you doing all these things and they're like, Nate, I have to do everything in the business as to do, I just do whatever they say. Like, I don't have a choice and I was like, okay, well you do but, you know, maybe you want to deliver value early and quickly to these leaders who are asking you to do things. But you know, at some point you do have to push back a little if what they're asking you to do.
[00:09:45] Do is not the highest value thing that you could deliver as DNA. Because at the end of the day, it's your job on the line if you don't deliver value. Not theirs. So you should push back. You should be able to manage resources, effectively. So, fortunately, I haven't heard it as much recently. In fact, I've got more requests for how to mature, which is good news, uh, for me, uh, because I take that as a sign that we are, in fact, maturing. But what you see here is that can we use the budget? Well, and optimize it? We'll talk about that. The second is how do we architect DNA technology at scale?
[00:10:18] And that's just going beyond the AI pilots and machine learning Pilots the, you know, data governance programs, things like that. And really taking up the platform and the technology for and
[00:10:30] Prize wide scale. Um, I've never heard finops more than I heard at the Orlando conference. We'll talk about that more in a second, um, but that budget and scalability and reusability of technology, so that you don't have a ballooning cost structure, that's a big deal and those actually do fit well together.
[00:10:50] And then finally, how do we adopt AI within the DNA function? I I need to say that again because it's very nuanced. How do we adopt AI within the DNA function? Um, there's a difference between that and how do we adopt AI for the organization? Now, you might go. Why are we talking about this? Well, it's very much a, uh, cobbler's children have no shoes type of situation. You know, we're trying to drive AI for the organization, but we don't even use AI.
[00:11:15] Ourselves. In fact we restricted. Um so that's going to be an issue. We should lead by example in this situation. So we'll cover these 3 items today.
[00:11:26] So we'll start with the first 1 here. How do we use our budget? Well,
[00:11:32] The good news is, is that we actually for the most part on our budget, which is nice, that's good to good to know because, you know, obviously you don't control the how much it is. Uh you can influence it and make a case for it. But at the end of the day, whatever they give you, they give you and I understand that. But you also own what you do with it which is good and that's 2/3 of folks. Um yes there's 23% that have access but not aren't the budget owner. There's some folks who have access to funds from a non DNA budget and a small
[00:12:00] Interaction with no budget access but the good news is is that you're either owning the budget or hopefully you can take this slide and show it to your leader and get that ownership uh that you're welcome for that, help on that 1. But uh, that's the that's the good news that we can focus on. So what can we do? Given that information.
[00:12:18] And the answer is, well, we can control the budget and where it goes.
[00:12:24] And as a result, we can figure out. What are we getting?
[00:12:30] For that budget or what value are we getting? Now, what's interesting about this is everyone talks about how they're struggling to show value, um, but that's, uh, that's like a big issue that usually, when people ask me that they should have started solving
[00:12:45] At 18 months earlier. Um, and like I said, I gave that a team in the 24-month time Horizon that you have to show value. Um, that's not a made up number. I made up. I've seen it time and time again, and anytime. Someone asked me if they haven't showed value, I said, oh, when did you start your strategy and they always say about 18 months ago?
[00:13:03] That's how much time you have before you got to show value. And the problem is that when we asked about whether people are actually doing some of the things that would help, make sure you're delivering value collaborating with Finance estimating costs monitoring spend. So, again, the cost management and the value management side of the equation that only 17% were practicing effective, continuous resource management.
[00:13:28] That's not good news.
[00:13:30] These are really important things. And this is where I mentioned the finops. I I never heard finops so much in my life. As I did, when we were having this conversation about scaling Ai and everyone's like we got to care about phenoms because everyone just keeps spinning up AI things and the costs are ballooning and it's costing a fortune and um I even saw a joke on LinkedIn. The other day about how the costs were ballooning so much. They were like, welcome back data, scientists. They like joked about how hey, I was going to replace. Everyone saw how much the bill was and started hiring those people back because they were cheaper than the AI. So, these are very important capabilities that, uh, just started badly getting talked about in the last few months somehow. Um, and so, uh, only 17% are good at it. Definitely a signal that we should, in fact, be better. But I want to make it
[00:14:15] Even better case for you about this. With this 24%, Max benefit, when adopting effective continuous, resource, management practices. So there is a tangible Improvement, in those, uh, from those practices to being more effective, uh, as a DNA function and delivering more value as an organization. So again, it's that cost value management approach. It's a combination of those factors that will make sure that you can realize the value of your function.
[00:14:46] Does it, you don't need more money, you just need to make the most of what you have, and you will see that benefit.
[00:14:54] Second item. How do we Architects our DNA technology for scale?
[00:15:00] Um, now here's some bad news. Uh, 85% said that DNA practices are not architected for scale and so I'm not sure who has an EA background, um, in this audience, if you have an architect, you know, this I'm talking to you because I covered EA for several years and I always love talking to Architects. Not only were they, um, and I say this with love the biggest nerds. And so, we always kind of nerd it out when we talk about things, we we drank the Kool-Aid on things like, um, uh business, uh, business architecture business capability mapping, uh, all you know, uh, reuse and uh, composability and all the fun, um, architecture of things. Uh, and now, I'm here, talking to DNA leaders, all these years later, um, having a little are
[00:15:45] Architecture section in my presentation here and I'm super happy and I can think of all my Architects going. Yeah, it's finally our time to shine, because no 1 ever likes to talk about us or think about us. And here we are today. Um, and so, the reason why this is the case though. Why the, um, 85% is a scary number. Is that when people do data analytics projects and they want more resources, I mentioned budget. Um, it's because they think linearly in terms of, I need more people to do more work.
[00:16:13] And unfortunately, there's only so much scale you can get for more people, you know each additional person. There's that marginal increase.
[00:16:21] And benefit and that marginal increase in cost. And so um you're going to only scale in a linear fashion when you do that.
[00:16:29] however,
[00:16:30] If you use architecture best practices, you can scale.
[00:16:34] As a parabola instead of a, a linear trajectory. And so what you see here is the idea that um at using architecture best practices you can scale at a much faster rate you can be more responsive and I know it sounds like that. Jedi Jedi mind trick where it's like architecture helps you go faster and it won't goes no it does. It makes it go slower and I I I've seen that before I've heard that story before so I understand it but let's talk about what we mean and how it actually does increase the speed and scale with which you can do data analytics. Um the first element we're talking about are the core architecture patterns and you see that here in the form of governance reusability modular components data.
[00:17:15] Data Fabric and so forth. These are examples of things that could highly scale your organization. Um, data governance is a good example because it's a lot less costly to manage, you know, 1 set of data than it is 5 sets of data. So I'm just having those core, uh, capabilities in place, will greatly reduce. The overhead required to manage your DNA capabilities. Um, the same thing goes for reuse, right? If you can, you know, adopt an AI pilot solution somewhere. And then, oh, it turns out that there are 3, other use cases that would benefit from the same thing. Then you can wrap it rapidly, roll out those, um, or scale. Those um, AI capabilities to those other areas and so that speed becomes significantly faster. We have plenty of case studies we profiled where
[00:17:57] They started delivering their first product.
[00:18:00] Like I don't know, I think it was like 8 to 12 weeks or something and then after that they were able to deliver new capabilities every 2 weeks. And it was this just that speed of delivery because they were following architecture best practices that allowed them to be much faster than they would have otherwise been
[00:18:16] And the other piece are, is the, uh, component, uh, component if I can speak, composable design components, the idea that, uh, you can, in fact make things modular, you can make things reusable, and those are things like microservices data, sharing marketplaces, scaling up the impact you can have, um, a data sharing is actually a really, um, popular right now on our high cycle. I'm actually the lead author on the hype cycle for Gardener for 2026. And we had this heated debate about data sharing.
[00:18:45] And it was like, my, my colleague Lydia, who I was just talking to today about this exact thing. Um, she had a prep Peak last year and then it kind of went up to the peak this year. And last year I was like data sharing, really? This this far back. Like I think it should be so much further and she fought and fought and fought and I kind of just caved and said, okay, you can put it there and lo and behold this year, she is right. That's why I let her win. No, I'm kidding. Uh, the she was right. Um, we actually did an analysis of how high high demand that topic was is actually 1 of the top of you topics if you get rid of some of the obvious stuff, like AI, which I would get rid of those because they're obvious. Um, it was like the number 1 Thing outside of those obvious ones, uh, in terms of Trends and popularity. And so um, this idea
[00:19:30] That you can, you know, share data, make sure other people have access it. Multiply the amount of value you can get from that data. That kind of power is um really going to accelerate the value delivery and then also exponentially increase the value delivery. So these are all elements that are important but don't just take my word for it. As I mentioned, we did do the survey and we did do the analysis and we found that there's a maximum benefit from the foundational DNA architecture. And you have the 36% from the core data architecture patterns and the 35% from the composable design patterns.
[00:20:05] So these are very important elements that can help us scale our data analytics and AI capabilities. And a way that doesn't make you hear the word finops and other 35 times over the next 5 months.
[00:20:17] The last piece here is, how do we adopt AI within the DNA function?
[00:20:21] And again, I mentioned, this is a cobbler's children, have no shoe situation where
[00:20:26] Um, 90% have not integrated a full Suite of AI techniques into DNA delivery models and yet we're supposed to be leading, AI efforts.
[00:20:35] Seems kind of strange, right? So, that's good news though, because it means we have the opportunity to identify that and start to use it. Um, I and look, I have the most sympathy over the last 18 months, maybe 2 and probably 2 years now.
[00:20:51] I mean, I saw when I hit in 2024 and it was just all the rage of the geni, and everyone was using it immediately, everyone freaked out and said, hey,
[00:21:00] um,
[00:21:01] we need a policy for G and the policy was usually like don't use it, don't use it. External externally. That is, uh, because you put sensitive data out there, it's out there forever, they using their models, you're in big trouble. So like I totally respect that and a lot of people are focusing on that early and so there was a lot of governance around that and I totally get why you would be a little, um, hesitant to do something of that nature. Um, you know, a couple years ago last year. Um, but we are getting to the point where those things are in place and so you are able to do it. And so you are able to start to integrate, uh, AI techniques into DNA delivery models and a way that is in a safe and effective way.
[00:21:38] And so there are 3 ones, uh, 3 kinds that people typically think of when they think of that AI adoption, there's use case deployment,
[00:21:46] There's AI driven data, management and governance.
[00:21:50] And then there's AI enhanced code generation.
[00:21:56] Now, the interesting thing is that the code generation happens to be the most mature area.
[00:22:02] Of creative AI work. And when you think about it, that kind of makes sense, right? Like what do people use geni for when it first came out other than asking it random questions and replacing a Google search, that was kind of the very, very first thing. But once they found out, I can actually do things. What do they do? Oh, have a write emails for me, you know, which is hey, this is late. What gives put it through G.
[00:22:22] Thank you very much for, you know, your inquiry and let's talk about your deadline and you know, it's like saying it's saying something bluntly.
[00:22:30] And in a very nice way. And I even had this joke where I was like we live in a world now where you put your email through Jenny, I to make it sound nice and then it goes to the other person and then they put it through jennai to summarize it to what you originally went men's to say anyway, so that's the world we live in now. Ai just talking to each other and we're just looking at the things to be polite, um, but the code generation is the other piece because it's, what is it? It's a language, it's no different than, you know, spoken English language. So the idea of um, hey let's just say, hey, I want something that does this, write some code for it, it's going to kind of Acts very similarly, to how it would work to write an email. And so, as a result, it's 1 of the most mature areas. But people have historically, been a little hesitant, not only from a job perspective because people think,
[00:23:15] I was going to replace it as far as I know. I don't think it's going to place everyone tomorrow. I, I, I, I'm a big skeptic on the like, oh, it's going to fundamentally shift everything. But rather it's going to increase something, um, specifically, in fact, um, in my personal life, I was working with a, a developer,
[00:23:30] On something. And they were able to put out 4 versions of this, um, web software that, that we were working on together uh, in like 2 hours.
[00:23:40] And I said, wow, you're super productive. What are you doing? Oh, I just ran everything through the G and it's just generates the code for me and and it's just all 5 coding now and I'm like okay that is wild. Uh I've never seen that many updates so quickly but that's really the world we live in where that scalability and that speed uh is in fact possible and the
[00:24:00] The good news is just like with everything else is I um do have proof that this, in fact it does matter uh the max benefit of extensively adopting AI to power the DNA delivery model. Uh, the analytics use cases 42% the data management 33% and the code generation 27%. So there is value and leveraging Ai and certainly doing yourself. Give your uh cobbler's kids shoes and make sure that you are in fact, adopting AI as well.
[00:24:28] and so, if you do those 3 things, let's summarize here for today,
[00:24:32] if you aim your resources appropriately, again the cost management the and the value Management. In fact, my colleague who's um, here, um, uh, he's, uh, he just published, uh, I don't know.
[00:24:45] If it's published or not, um, but, um, I'll have to go check on that. Um, but he just published on, on value management. And, um, uh, they also built a a value management, uh, Innovation profile that's on the hype cycle this year as well. So it's become a popular topic, but a combination of that, with the cost management at the finops, those are become popular topics for, um, for this year. And so, you should definitely focus on those and that'll get the most out of what you do have. Would you like to have more resources? Sure, we all would do. We actually see a surprising number of folks who are holding or reducing budget in this environment. Yeah, actually kind of do but and now you might have seen it in the other presentations but it doesn't mean that you can't make uh, do with what you have and make the best of what you have.
[00:25:30] Architect for scale, we talked about how those architecture components can help you with speed and scalability. So we'll definitely, uh, uh, recommend that you, uh, focus on those elements as well. We mentioned the, uh, patterns, we mentioned the components, modular thinking, and those sorts of things. And I mentioned when you put that together with the finops, uh, hopefully, you can, uh, prevent rather than react to, uh, the insane AI cost Bill, uh, from cost coming from the, uh, from the business, trying little Pilots.
[00:26:01] And then finally, adopt AI yourself. So make sure that you're able to see some of the value of those use cases, put them into practice and make sure that you are not, um, uh, uh, I don't want to call it hypocrisy. That's not the right word. But, um,
[00:26:15] But you're not saying, hey, I need a lead AI for the organization and then not even, um, doing it for your own team. So, um, make sure you drive those 3 areas and that will help you pave the way for the future. And so, if we come back to our beginning points, um, hopefully you go from that idea of uh, being vulnerable from being
[00:26:34] Uh, having impostor syndrome, feeling like lack of control. When you put these 3 things in perspective, you'll realize you actually do have control. Um, you can be empowered and not vulnerable and you can realize that you do have the capabilities. You need to lead data analytics and AI for and your organizations. So I appreciate your time. Thank you so much and have a good rest of the conference.
