[00:00:05] Welcome.
[00:00:06] A practical guide to measure cost risk and value of Genai.
[00:00:13] I've been, uh, working with clients for a number of years, on business cases and more specifically on Genai business cases, agentic business cases. And, um, we want to make this as practical as possible. It is difficult. Um, but it is necessary. The primary reason is the amount of money that people are spending on AI and will continue to spend the on AI for the foreseeable future is materials. What does that mean in accounting terms? It's above a certain threshold, even for small products.
[00:00:45] Therefore your Chief Financial officers are often going to be required to get on an earnings call or in some public forum or large forum. And explain, this is how much we're investing. This has been our cost, this is the value Creation in monetary terms euros dollars, uh, British pounds Yen, whatever the currency is, and here's the differential, and that is being the big test. And if you start looking at real data,
[00:01:16] we have over 80 to 95% of clients who come back and tell us that it's been difficult to show Financial value, thus far, and we're sort of into 2 to 2 and a half years in from that.
[00:01:30] Big announcement from Chachi PT. And if we go through another year like that in 2026, um, it's going to really be a very different story when we're on stage. Um, and so we've done many many studies, the number that's shown underneath this circle here is from CFOs. We're only 11% of them have said that we can actually trace this and feel comfortable going to a large audience. Whether it's our Board of, uh, directors or shareholders to do that. So there is no R in Roi is the big dilemma. And so, that's why you have to make sure that you are focusing on the right projects at the right time. So 1 of the things we did, when we started seeing this,
[00:02:15] Trend as we did. Of course, a study and this is the results of the study where we asked people. What were the primary reasons that you actually were not showing Financial impact? Um, the number 1 reason was, we picked the wrong use cases. So many many clients, even at this event already. I've done about 4 1-on-1s earlier today and clients said, well, we started with things like Microsoft uh 365 co-pilot which is 30 Euros per user per month. Um and we haven't been able to show Financial impact and that's because the tools that are being implemented are not driving. Um, Financial benefits. They are driving things like AI literacy digital dexterity.
[00:03:00] They're doing some employee empowerment but we're finding that time saves is not necessarily money saved.
[00:03:07] So you actually have to translate the value or the different kinds of value into separate them, into monetary value and non-monetary value. So when someone says, I'm going to increase my net promoter score,
[00:03:22] Or I'm going to increase my brand value or customer satisfaction those all 3 of those. And many more are very difficult to translate into monetary terms. It doesn't mean they're not valuable, it means they are not Financial. Uh, impacts that will hit a general ledger, will hit your p&l, your profit and loss statements. So the number 1 Thing,
[00:03:45] Is picking The Right Use cases, but the second 1 is 1 of the things we're going to go over today which is well, we don't know exactly how do you calculate value. So I'm going to give you a glimpse of how to do that Gartner on our our website, if you're a client, we have uh, cost calculator or value calculator, we bring that all together and showcase, how do you demonstrate and showcase value Minus cost and where your break even points are I'll show you some examples in this deck. Um the third 1 is, why many of you are here which is we don't have the data, we picked, you know, use cases that we realize later that we don't have the data for. So you have to go through a process 1 of the things that's practical is you have to pick the use cases up front and not
[00:04:30] Find out during the POC or during the pilot that you actually pick things that you don't have data for, or the data is really expensive to clean it, to curate it, to store it to integrate it and all of those things. Um, or at least if it is, that you are properly explaining to the CFO, the time Horizon for that. So I won't go through all of these but we have research on every 1 of these are trying to address them. The fourth 1 is the last 1 that I'll talk to which is the business, functional alignment and that is that everything. I'm going to show you on the next set of slides is not an individual sport. It's not like tennis or golf this whole thing and everything. I'm going to show you is a little bit more like football or basketball.
[00:05:15] Basketball or a team sport. You could have a great player on any 1 of those teams, but if you don't have the whole team working in synchronicity and synergistically together, you're not going to be able to do this, um, so it's not just the people in the data and analytics team, not just the people in it or security or procurement. It's also the business people, I'll show you which pieces they are going to be responsible for doing
[00:05:40] So let's sort of jump in.
[00:05:42] And how do we get practical and tactical? Where do you start? What Gartner calls your starting point. We call it a funding funnel. You can call it. Whatever you like in your organization. It doesn't even have to look like this in terms of a graphic. But what you're trying to do is you have tons, and tons of ideas, it could be dozens and
[00:06:00] Could be hundreds of ideas but you're likely only going to fund a small number 5 or 10. I was working with a client 2 weeks ago. That has gone through this process, over an 18-month period. They've approved, 600 ideas and they're in the process of doing them. That's they're very large organization but most of the time I talked to companies that are doing 5 or 10 that they got approved um and so where this funding funnel starts and the concept of it is you need to come up with a rigorous repeatable enterprise-wide. That means everybody in the company has to be using it even if the funds come from different places.
[00:06:39] So 1 big thing that's happening is in I'll just say the old days, what would happen is the money.
[00:06:45] Comes from, um, the CFO. It gets transferred into the cios or the data and analytics budget, and the leader of those respective groups is managing. It that doesn't happen in AI or gen, AI or agentic. If the head of sales, says, I have money, I want to do this, or the head of marketing. Says, I have money. I want to do this. They're actually funding their initiatives, so you could have multiple funding funnels but the concept is the methodology has to be applicable and exercised in the same way. Um so lots of people ask me. Well, we don't have a centralized way of doing this so might not be 1 funniest to be the same and you're going to be doing this a lot. It needs to be
[00:07:30] Repeatable and it needs to be consistent across the organization.
[00:07:34] So where it starts is with this litmus test. So you're going to vet these ideas, you're going to prioritize them, which means you're going to juxtapose them or compare them to each other. And that is, uh, you need to normalize them to do that because you might have 1 idea from Finance 1 from HR, 1 from sales, 1 from marketing and you need a way to put them all on the same Level Playing Field. And then you're going to apply this litmus test and I wish I could tell you that. I had a slide in here that says, this is the exact litmus test that you should use. And there is no such thing, because every organization has very different thresholds for risk. Very different thresholds. For what?
[00:08:15] Willing to spend in which uh which uh quarters of the year so they might be focused on capex or Opex. They might be focused on a certain amount of cash flow. So the litmus test is always anchored in your business strategy.
[00:08:30] So if you don't know or you don't have your business strategy, you really need to every single person. Here should be able to go back to some presentation that was presented by the leadership in the organization or in the annual report. And you should really try to say, what is our 1-page business strategy? What is the goal that um we're trying to achieve this year? Um, is the goal related to revenue? So we need to increase revenue or is the goal related to cost reduction or
[00:09:00] Cost efficiency or is the goal something related to risk, right? And I talked to a lot of organizations that might be like a hospital or a public sector organization where they're talking about saving lives or they're talking about other kinds of things that are not necessarily monetary whatever your 3 areas are sorry.
[00:09:22] There we go.
[00:09:24] Sorry about that. So whatever your 3 5 pillars are associated with your business strategy, you need to capture them and make sure everyone's on the same page and you'll see this slide a couple of different times in this deck because everything has to tie back to your business strategy. So these are examples I took the names of the clients.
[00:09:45] Out, but you'll sort of uh, see in a few uh, slides later, how these come into play, but every single company kind of has their profile or their appetite for risk. And what their business strategy is now that bottom, uh, uh, item down here is time Horizon. If someone says to you, I'm trying to cut costs. You actually have to say in what time period. Are you trying to do it in the next 3 months? 6 months in the same fiscal year because that's going to determine which business cases you approve. If because someone can tell you, this is such a great AI initiative. We're going to cut costs. Well well it's going to take us 2 years to do that. You have some CFOs they're saying no no, no. I only want you to pick things.
[00:10:30] Where we could get the results and realize those benefits in the same fiscal year. So it's really important when you're looking at what your strategy is, is what is the time Horizon associated with it? So now you've developed your litmus test for your organization. And last year in 2025, lots of companies were telling me, we need to cut cost by 20 255 by 10% in the same fiscal year. So and they did headcount reductions all kinds of things, right? Um, so the way that you now take all of these things and the way you normalize, the different ideas, all those ideas from many, many different groups or functions is you're going to apply.
[00:11:11] 2 axis. 1 is the feasibility axis. How feasible?
[00:11:15] Lose this idea. And I'm going to show you um, all of the variables that go into this or a pope PA variables of which you can select, which ones are appropriate for you, and then you're actually going to do the business value, um, side of this. So there's 2 different groups that are doing these calculations. These are going to be mathematical calculations, these are not just, I'm going to create a PowerPoint and just sort of eyeball it and kind of put it in a spot. So you're going to array all these ideas and you're going to end up with something that looks like this, where each 1 of these is a use case example.
[00:11:50] And so this is a generic 1. So what you're actually doing in feasibility, that is actually calculated by a group of people that have knowledge. They might be
[00:12:00] On the AI team, they might be on the software team, the infrastructure team. They definitely need data people and analytics people. You need usually somebody from procurement because 1 of the variables that you'll see in feasibility is cost um and they're also helping you figure out the technical risk.
[00:12:19] On the business value chart. We're going to have the business risk, but here, we're going to have the technical risk. Um, they're also going to tell you the cost of the data.
[00:12:27] Um, what is security going to cost? What are all of these elements going to cost. So you're looking at um uh, you know, the elements of what feasibility over what time Horizon that's important and then on the vertical axis, it's not those same people that are going to calculate.
[00:12:45] The the, um, business value, it is the people who do the work.
[00:12:49] And what's really interesting is by virtue of doing this exercise 1, practical thing that happens is, if I was asked, if I was a business person and I was asked to do this business value calculation. It starts to trigger in my head, and in my heart, and in my mind, and in my gut, it starts to trigger, like, what's the Assumption around that? And what is the change that I need to make in the business process in order for this to be true for this value creation to happen, right? So, the business people really need to start thinking about what is the change in the business process? What are the change in the metrics of the humans? And what are the required metrics? The new metrics
[00:13:30] Of the machines that are going to be in the process. How am I going to re-engineer redefine re-calibrate, the process. How am I going to engender trust? Those are all the things that the business people are doing while the technical people, the data people. The security people are all looking at all, the other elements around the technical risk. So here's a real, um, example, this was not developed by me. This was developed by a lot of the data analytics analysts that are at this event. Um, I'm actually in our CIO, uh, practice at Gartner, but the analyst, the data analytics analysts all of them are listed here. They all got together and as you could see, they color-coded different things for analytics and bi
[00:14:15] And also for, um, data science, right? So not only have they done this. If you go on gartner.com and you're a client,
[00:14:24] Over 1,500 analysts have scored over 600, use cases at Gartner and so you could get variations of this by industry by function and so on. So you can actually start to look. Now, you might look at 1 of these and you're like, I don't know what Gartner is talking about. That is definitely not high feasibility or high value, uh, in my organization. So these are based on a conglomerate set of clients usually somewhere between 25 and 100 clients of how they've gotten these numbers. But if you look at 1 of these use cases, and you say there's no way the feasibility.
[00:15:00] Is that high most of the time. Some people say, well, here's why my data, my company has not invested in data in 10 years or some large number, right? So therefore, it's going to take me just a year to clean up the data to curate the data, to integrate the data, to get the metadata. So your um, average might this is an average yours might not be aligned to this and that's why every 1 of these is specific to your organization. So we give you lots of examples, we give you the reasons why we scored it, we try to explain it but your particular situation might be better or worse than this. That's why you're you need to use these tools to recalculate your own. So here's how you start to do some of the calculations.
[00:15:45] This is the feasibility calculation. So those are all the people that I mentioned, um, and the upper left there who are the people that are doing this together. So, it's people from it, from data, from security, from analytics, um, and so on, and they're looking at variables like the ones you see on this on this, uh, on the in the blue boxes. So they're looking at like the vendors, the technology they're looking at, do I have ai ready data and if you attend some of the sessions here, you'll understand how Gartner defines AI, ready data and what are the variables they're looking at security. They're looking at compliance or regulatory elements and across the bottom for all of these. They're looking at. What is it going to take to govern? This, what is the initial cost?
[00:16:30] What is the recurring cost? What are the risk associated with all of this? And again the time. So you can take these variables and you can array them like we do and you can pick which ones you want, you can weight them. Um and you can score them
[00:16:46] And I even advise every place let's just say you were using a scale of 1 to 10 every place you scored them less than let's say a 7. You actually want to capture qualitatively why? Because you want to pass that along first to your legal team. So when they're negotiating contracts and if they tell a vendor, if your lawyer tells the vendor, hey you know, we scored you like a 5 and the vendor says oh no. No I'm really a 9. I'm not a 5. I can't believe you scored me a 5 then
[00:17:15] If I was a lawyer, I would say to them, guess what? Then it would be no problem for you to meet this requirement in the contract. So you would have no problem putting this line item in the contract. If you really think you're a 9, no big deal, right? So, it doesn't really matter, but you're passing along this information to your lawyers to whoever is going to do. Vendor management. Whoever is going to do project management. And you're really also looking at, do we have the right assumptions? So when you do it, next time you're actually learning from the process. So those are real practical things you need to do.
[00:17:47] So now we're looking at the other axis which is what other Business Leaders doing and their fundamentally looking at their set of variables and they could be around, customer centricity around all the different element.
[00:18:00] Elements of how is this going to change? The people that do this work? Do we need less people. Do we need more people? Um, what are the new metrics of those people? Um, what is, how is the business process in the workflow going to change? What is going to be automated? What is going to be autonomous? Um, and really, what is going to? How is this going to impact our customer experience? If it's externally facing, if it's internally facing, it's really about your internal customers. What are the ethics around this? Um, what are the compliance elements around this? So they're trying to figure out the business risk but in so doing that's where if you for example had a project and um were in May let's just say you have an initiative and you're going to go live.
[00:18:45] On September 1 between now and September 1. A lot of business people think like yeah, I'm just waiting for the technology, the data people, the security people to develop it and then September 1. I'll sort of figure out what I need to do know.
[00:18:58] While the the technology and the data people are doing their work, the business people are supposed to be looking at. How is the process going to be redefined? What are the new metrics? They're supposed to be doing a lot of work and it starts with this because they are signing up for what is the business value? Creation associated with this. And so when you do this calculation, this business value creation, you have to come back to this anchor slide and these anchor set of goals. What were the business goals?
[00:19:30] So you have to almost tagged every AI initiative and say which of these 3 pillars or 5 pillars of our strategy is this particular AI initiative going to drive and then how you practically do it is you align them like this, right? And then what you're doing is the business. People are looking for each of these areas.
[00:19:51] Um, underneath each 1 and they're really asking a really key question. They're actually asking.
[00:20:00] What are the I I need to identify the 3 to 5 areas and how they're going to drive this particular pillar of our strategy. But for each 1, they're going to look at the kpis, the key performance indicators, and they're going to answer
[00:20:15] A question, either a 1 or 2 or a 3.
[00:20:18] And what they're actually answering is. If I do this AI initiative and I'm able to change this process. This way a 1 is where I actually have a direct cause and effect, we call that. And it's not just a Gartner term, it's actually used uh pretty frequently in the industry. I painted it blue, that's called Blue money. That is money that flows to a p&l that is money, that goes to General to a general ledger line item for costs or Revenue.
[00:20:46] So you're either going to reduce costs, or you're going to increase Revenue. Now, if you go to the light blue, if you choose a number 2, this is where it has a high correlation and sort of use more current binocular. This is an influencer, all right, this is not a direct.
[00:21:00] Cause and effect. And then the third 1 is what we call Green money, right? Green money is, this is important. This is interesting, like, I'm increasing my net promoter score. I might increase my brand value or I love the 1. People say cost avoidance. I was going to pay Accenture delloyd or Tata or Infosys, or cognizant 20 million dollars or 20 million euros. But now I'm going to avoid all those costs and I'm only going to spend a million with them.
[00:21:27] Right. That does not flow to a pnl that is valuable, but it is not value monetary value. That will go that your CFO cares about so those are in the green. So there's a lot of green money, um, if you will versus blue money. And so, those are all the kinds of things.
[00:21:45] Things that you look at. So what you're actually looking, if you pick number 1 and you say, this AI initiative is going to drive this exact value creation, you have to say by how much
[00:21:56] so you have to go to the kpis. So this is just a summary listing. That's readable all the way back there. We have a Gartner, we have hundreds of kpis and we organize them by industry by geography and by function, right? So if you're an airline, you know, company and you're in Asia, versus you're a hospital and you're in Europe, you have very different kpis, and they're very different by process. So, even something as innocuous, maybe like accounts, payable the accounts payable kpis for 1.
[00:22:30] Company that's in the service industry is very different than the kpis for accounts payable for a manufacturing company that buys things like steel or aluminum or all of those things. So, these kpis are not hard to find. I mean, we have them on our website, um, but you can also find them very easily, you just go to the head of that business unit and you say, what are the 3 or 4 metrics that you look at every day every week, every month they will tell you what these are but then you're actually asking them. What is causing friction in those metrics? What is causing either higher cycle, time or latency or um what's causing error rates? What's causing quality issues, they can tell you what those are. They might not know exactly how to solve them, but what you're actually doing.
[00:23:15] Doing is, how am I going to impact this kpi? Because that's what goes into your value calculation, right? And so we did this, we actually took 15 of the most common use cases that we hear. Um so we anonymize we did this with clients but we anonymize the names of the clients and these are the 15. KPa
[00:23:36] Or sorry, 15 most common use cases. And for each 1 we calculated the value. We calculated the cost over a 3 year period and what the break even point is. So I can't don't have time to do all of them. So I picked a very common 1, which is this 1 in the middle which is 10, AI. Assisted customer support and we did a calculation for the buy a buy version of that and a build version of that and
[00:24:00] We used, but between 4 and 500 users. And we picked we talked to the client asked them what deal they negotiated with the vendors and you end up with something that looks like this, right? So this is the executive summary 1 slide that you show in an executive meeting, right? So this is actually showing the cost curve. Um is over a 3 year period And I picked this 1 off course, because it looks very nice. Because as the cost curve and the value curve, go out the distance between the 2 gets bigger and bigger. So that's the kind of thing you want. They don't all look like that. Here's another 1 that a client actually did and as you could see the cost curve is above the value curve. Um, and the client
[00:24:45] Actually decided that they were going to do this project even though the break even was 3 and a half years. Why? Because ahead of sales in this company had money. And this this person said this project is not just about the fiscal year that I'm going to get the money that I'm going to get this year. This is fundamentally changing the way we do sales in this company. So it's a new foundational design approach that I want to implement over a 3 year period. So I'm investing in this in addition most people think like yeah the costs are going to go down so the curve is going to bend down and so it's going to be different. So there's this hopeful element of it. But the most important thing, when you look at all these and I included 3 or 4 of them in your deck, when you download them,
[00:25:30] Is the fact that it's transparency.
[00:25:33] Very a far up front. This is actually done before. You've invested 1 euro or 1 pound in anything. You haven't even done a POC yet, right? And the reason is, is you're trying to do this so you can avoid what I showed on the first 2 slides, you could avoid picking the wrong use cases. Or if you pick them, you're actually saying there's a few that we're going to do that. We're not going to get financial value but we need to do them because they're so important in our industry or they are foundational and that's 1 of the things that's happening with agentic. If you need to set up an agentic platform to do 20 projects, or you need to clean up data, that is going to be used in 20 initiative.
[00:26:15] It's very hard to account for all of that money, in 1 initiative. So you're actually going to say we're going to do these things. And these are the 3 projects. No, no Financial return this year, these are foundational projects. Like you're building a house. When you build a foundation and its strong enough later, you can build a second floor or a third floor. It's like that. But you actually have to explain that to the CFO and you're saying, we're only doing 1 or 2 of these and we're going to do another 8. That is going to give us Financial return that in the same fiscal year. We'll fund the other 3.
[00:26:50] So you're building a portfolio of these things, right? And so these are the others I won't go through all of them. I just showed you examples but now
[00:27:00] Are you bringing the whole thing together? You're bringing everything together. And here's a real example, 3 use cases 1 for growing Revenue. So this particular client here is a, um, a DIY which is do-it-yourself sort of store that sells you, these kinds of products and 1 of the things that they were doing, is they were trying to figure out, how do we increase by 10%,
[00:27:25] So if you look at what the challenge was, you'll see if a monetary amount and a Time Horizon. So they wanted to do this particular 1 in the same fiscal year.
[00:27:35] Um, and what they were trying to do was they were frequently launching different promotions and they wanted to make sure that they were getting the return on these different things.
[00:27:45] Things and they wanted to do better quarterly planning. So as you could see their results, they exceeded it by 95%. Um, they got 9% in annual revenue growth but they also did other things that changed their Capital costs um and things like that. So these are um a very interesting case. Study these are all published this is 1 related to cost reduction. So this is more about a logistics provider that does all these deliveries. And 1 of the things they wanted to do was they wanted to increase their efficiency and take out costs around that. But they didn't want to, you know, buy a lot more new trucks. They didn't want to buy, they didn't want to have this extra, you know, sort of capital expense. So they actually did a very interesting project where
[00:28:30] They did a lot of optimization of their roots and you could see the results. They actually grew, um, by 25%. So they surpassed their goal. But when you read these in detail, you'll see every single 1 of them starts exactly the way I showed you, which is what was the business of pillar and the business strategy. How did the AI initiative relate to that strategy and what was the time Horizon?
[00:28:54] Um, and then, the last 1, I did was a hospital and they didn't have a direct monetary number. Although you'll see if you read these results, you'll see they did get some monetary benefits, but theirs was about saving lives. Theirs was in their emergency room, they wanted to decrease the wait time. Which obviously, you know, over time, over a long period of
[00:29:15] Time increases or saves lives because people aren't waiting. And so what they were actually doing
[00:29:21] Is they again same thing. They had a a very clear um metric and they had a very clear time Horizon and that they wanted to do this, but when you read these results you'll see not only did they reduce the Wait Times by 77%. But because of the way that they use their data, they were able to change the shifts of the hospital, the nurses and the doctors, so they got a better sort of savings of a 100,000 dollars, um, in more optimally doing their shifts and how they assign people.
[00:29:53] So that's kind of this is like the big you know sort of summary of you know you're doing the funding funnel.
[00:30:00] You're actually then comparing and contrasting or prioritizing the different initiatives and then you're calculating the cost and the value. So when I show this to everyone and I walk through all the details associated with it, they usually tell me. Well somebody in finance, somebody in data and analytics or somebody in it is never going to do all these calculations, right? So this is where it becomes a team sport eventually. You have to teach and work with the controllers and the people in finance. So people are doing all the details. Spreadsheets are normally in finance but they often don't know. All the elements of cost they don't know what tokens are. They don't know what fine-tuning is, they don't know what a vector database is so you're actually working with them to figure out. Here's our our rig
[00:30:45] Vigorous repeatable, consistent framework that we're going to use for every initiative and over time they get faster smarter you know, sort of better at doing that. Um, and so some people sort of say to me Fran, what's a, an even more practical, or what's the light version of this, right? Because this is a lot of stuff, right? So the light version of this, again, always starts with the business process.
[00:31:08] But you typically can just lay out if you're just having a conversation with someone, you can lay out like a 1-page, look at your company and this is generic, right? But what is front office? What is Middle office? And what is back office for your company right? And it's pretty easy to figure it out like what is customer facing but the immediate thing you tell them.
[00:31:30] Is if your front office or your above a certain line here, what you're actually doing in the company is you're creating value. That means you have 2 levers that you can pull. You could either reduce costs or you could increase Revenue
[00:31:43] but if you're down here,
[00:31:45] you only have 1 lever, you could pull, which is you're going to reduce costs.
[00:31:49] So that simple explanation sometimes, you know says well you know those kpis that we talked about those actually don't um uh apply because we're not increasing revenue and so you can then start drawing. Here's where we want the initiatives. Here's where we want to do differentiating things. Here's where we want to do Innovative things and here's where we're a commodity.
[00:32:13] Here's where we.
[00:32:15] Just need to be equivalent to everybody else. We don't need to be better. We just need to be at the same cost structure and the same speed.
[00:32:21] So with that um you can essentially take that and and drive those conversations and really gather all the people that you need together in order to do this work.
[00:32:33] So I will be here for the rest of the conference, of course and the 1-on-1 area. Um, can answer questions? I'll be here right after the session. And thank you very much for coming to the event and enjoy and do your business cases.