[00:00:05] Good afternoon. My name is Eric breu. I lead AI research at Gartner as my accent does not indicate I live in Chicago.
[00:00:14] Where I live that research for quite a while. Now, I've been in AI since 1982 I I was actually lucky enough in high school to have 1 of my professor was Anna K, want an inventor of prologue? And I fell into that young and I never came out of it. Somehow we go through AI winter and AI Summers. We are on an AI summer right now. Uh, so the spotlight is on us and like they said, in the keynote, that's great news. It's also very bad news as a spotlight is on us, shining very brightly.
[00:00:46] When I was a kid, I was using to watch Cosmos. This is called Sagan and Kagan was a cosmologist looking to Cosmos into. He did a lot of TV series, trying to democratize. Also, what astronomy was about and something stuck with me, he had an interview with, um, a journalist and a journalist said, but Carl, you're such an expert is there life out there? Do you know, if they are aliens just in the cosmos and C said, I don't know, I don't have the data, I don't have the evidence so I really don't know.
[00:01:18] And the journalist said but Carl what is your gut tell you?
[00:01:22] And Carl said, well, I tend not to think in my guts.
[00:01:27] and for me, that was a lesson at that moment of thinking,
[00:01:30] But that gentleman knows so much. He has intuition, is it possible to capture that intuition somehow just the evidence and the data, surely might not be enough. We should be able to calculate this somehow and lo and behold, AI has the answer to that question? Yes, we can calculate it. But also, you can capture intuition and experience using AI techniques AI is a knowledge representation mechanism. So there is something behind that as very helpful.
[00:02:03] Agents is something that came out to the foreground very recently, or did it.
[00:02:09] In 1994, I worked on the paper, very early on with Nick Jennings who then came out to publish that.
[00:02:15] Paper also on the autonomous agents. And the problems of autonomous agents this is required reading for my students in Chicago. And when you go through that list, almost every single problem. We faced then in 1996, it's actually true today.
[00:02:34] It also applies AI agents is a software mechanism, a methodology to program, something you put AI in it and you get an AI agent but agents have been around for quite a while.
[00:02:46] and we know how to deal with them, mostly now if you put generative AI inside an agent,
[00:02:51] That's what the problem start and we'll talk about that. So we're going to look into AI agent and composite AI, like I said, just up to now.
[00:03:00] It's not just 1 AI technique or 1, a practice AI has multitude of Technologies. You have been using you have been championing, new cdao, and analytics people forever machine learning. Today is probably what provides still the most value in your organization, fundamental, AI techniques.
[00:03:21] So these have been around for quite a while. How do you mix these techniques to get better reliability? The second part we look at is this decision intelligence. It's a little of serendipity but it turns out to be a great organizing principle for AI agents. And I'll explain how. And finally, we looked at the some autonomy problems because the essence of a
[00:03:45] Is autonomy.
[00:03:47] And how do we look that autonomy? And I give you a few examples of clients that have shared with me not long ago. So I can also go through practically. How does it look like all right.
[00:03:57] First of all, a near an agent is an independent software entity that is autonomous. Or semi-autonomous that can perceive that can reason that can act on the world digitally, but with physical AI. Now, physically as well. That's what an agent is.
[00:04:15] Does it say that it uses the large language model? Know, it doesn't.
[00:04:19] Okay. That's what an agent is. Actually. Let me go, 1 level deeper, we took an x-ray of an agent, and this is what it looks like.
[00:04:27] So, you get the perceiving.
[00:04:30] Part of that this state and then it looks at how internally the state is different from what it knows the environment to be like, and what it perceives, which is new. There's a learning element that allows them to be able to understand also compared with memory, what happened in the past and also what to do next. There's a model there and that model box can include many AI techniques, maybe 1, only maybe many, maybe a larger language model if you want to, but not necessarily that. Then it has the ability to establish a series of action to act upon the environment to achieve its goal. So, it has to go through a utility element, which is actually a fitness function to understand whether on,
[00:05:15] Not the series of steps. It's going to take is actually going to fulfill the goal or not. If it doesn't, it goes back in the loop.
[00:05:22] If it does, then it executes those actions in the environment and then see what the result can be.
[00:05:28] They are actually an industry that has been doing this for more than a decade and very successfully talking by the multiple thousands hundred of thousands of agents in real time and has been very successful at it.
[00:05:43] It's the game in the industry.
[00:05:46] Yes the operate within a non-world, I agree, but they fight you humans. They are pretty good at it if I may say so,
[00:05:54] And when they start doing that they're doing, they actually pushing a whole bunch of agents in the background.
[00:06:00] Ground, look at the NPC players and then come back. See what the result has been modify. The behavior send them back into action and get the back again. So you need for example, or other game platforms are very good at building agents because that's what they've been doing for quite a while. Unreal is good for that too. And so other so agents again, have been around for quite a while. And this is where the agent is. It's a new not new, it is a software Paradigm, okay? It's you put AI in it and it's an AI agent.
[00:06:31] Now we have the definition Peter right before me on stage also build that definition in terms of what we are looking at in terms of the evolution of these agents and also what we call assistance and why there is another
[00:06:45] Overlap between agent Ai and assistance. Because agent EI is not an AI discipline academic term. It's a marketing term and it covers now
[00:06:56] Functionalities into conversational, AI assistance. That are able to when you send a question in the system can actually look at the question interrogates, many other systems. Many other LMS then get back the answer. Look at the summary, ask a new question, potentially on the outside and do that by itself before giving you an answer. So it has some autonomy on how to do that. That is why that's kind of an agentic AI system but often agents operate by themselves again they are autonomous.
[00:07:30] That triggers is not you.
[00:07:32] It can be but very often it's not it's something else that an event or something like that has happened in environment.
[00:07:38] So, when we look at that, we also look into the fact that these decisions can be decomposed. This is an evolution of a model used by what we call to be the Huda Loop. Observe Orient, decide and act, which was put in place by John Boyd uh, in the US in the US Air Force in the 50s actually to train combat pilot and they were trying to reverse the Korean War problems. They had into dog fights, we are trying to reverse situation in 40 seconds. But the thing with observe Orient, decide and act is that it
[00:08:15] Doesn't take into consideration. The context that people have to take into account to make a decision. So here capture usually comes first You observe, what's happening in environment. Then once you capture that data, is the interpretation of that data and some context. Come into play here already, we are Context. Engineering can play a role
[00:08:36] Then you model you build the models in a background so that you give the deciders whether a machine or human beings sometimes, the ability to have many costs of action. They can choose from but then you go through a context situation. Also I'm a call center operator and I'm trying to solve a problem on the phone and I have the ability to make recommendation to my clients. For example, if they are screaming at
[00:09:00] Me because I'm not happy, I'm not going to make that recommendation, that's context.
[00:09:04] And in that case, the ACT part of it is non-execution.
[00:09:08] But in, if I execute that part 1 thing, we are notoriously very bad at, at organizations is to close the loop between the action. And then the, the capture what's happened, if I make that recommendation, and the client is not buying, there's no record often. So the ACT to be able to record non-actions, for example, is important to, but that's how decisions are being made with feedback and exceptions, of course. Looking at how we can learn from those. So that model for decisions. Also apply to agents
[00:09:41] they have the ability to go through this in order to understand also what
[00:09:45] The situations like and make those recommendations and take the courses of action.
[00:09:49] When we look at that environment in that model, the ability to add different kind of techniques at various stages of the decision making is becoming critical. And again, if you want to look at policies and compliance and you have a set of rules 10,000 or 15,000 rules. Why would you use anything else than a rule based system?
[00:10:12] They were made for that if you are looking at something that also propose a path to a solution and some causal analysis you're using graphs and knowledge. Graphs for that again, AI as an amazing knowledge, representation capability. I was speaking this morning actually with a large organization
[00:10:30] That's a retail organization and they were telling us 1 thing. We are missing. Now is a lot of people are going to retirement and we have a hard time to keep some of that knowledge in house.
[00:10:40] Well, where is the data for that? There's no data. It's in the head of the person is going to leave the organization. How do you capture that knowledge in the 80s. There was a methodology developed in Europe called cads kads that looked at knowledge extraction and then we use multiple AI systems, usually graph capabilities, some Predictive Analytics, but rules processing on the background and some information also from the graph itself to rebuild that knowledge that then can be institutionalized and stay within the organization. It's a
[00:11:15] Composite AI solution, the ability to mix AI techniques together within a single decision process to be able to map out the best decisions we can. And we have all of those at our disposal and they work at scale.
[00:11:31] So we've been going through this for quite a while now and that composite AI capability is essential. When you start moving to the next stage, now, that we know, or we can decompose how agents are making their decisions,
[00:11:43] so,
[00:11:44] This is which has been there before generative AI before the agentic AI wave has been around for good reason as well. We that's the way we Define it. It's a practical discipline that we use to be able to formalize decisions in order to formalize
[00:12:00] Them. We need an explicit representation of what the decision flow looks like and the decision flow. It not necessarily a process.
[00:12:09] And then we have systems to implement those. We published a magic quadrant at the beginning of this year, on decision, intelligence platforms, to give you an idea of what they can do and how they work. Why did it came about? It came about because we only analytic side, that's where I come from as well. We used to look at decision design as the ability to just push inside, but often in order to push insights where
[00:12:34] at what point in the process at what point in the decision flow, we needed help from those people. We don't like to talk to very much the process people.
[00:12:43] Because the process people think.
[00:12:45] We are the exhaust of a process. We are the necessary evil that they have to deal with.
[00:12:49] Well, the process people feel the same way about us.
[00:12:53] They feel that we are saying that data is King data matters data is what is the oil or the gold of the industry of the company? And how they can do that when they say no, no, no, no process is actually capturing how the company does things. Its the know-how of the organization and that's the Wonder of it. That's why process matters more than data. The truth of the is in the middle, and we meet at the decision. This end point, that's what decision intelligence was born from the ability to understand that it is a process problem and it is a data problem at the same time, when
[00:13:30] We looked at the characteristics of those systems that we started to build together. We realized something extraordinary, we looked at non-deterministic Behavior, meaning that sometime they are well-designed process, didn't hold to the data analysis. We said that that that's step doesn't happen. Now, it happens way before, way after and ask for that data. Before you went into that step, you failing with that step in that process, because the data says that it's wrong, on the other side of it, and have you not analyze that already and the ability to do that. Give us the fact that some processes, some decision, flows are not just sequential. They can happen in different kind of orders and yet provide the same outcome.
[00:14:10] Outcome is the other part of it, sustainable decision become important. The ability to make
[00:14:15] The right, and always the same decision, given the same data you get.
[00:14:19] and having consistency on how the organizations make simple decisions across the organization,
[00:14:25] And finally, there is some autonomy about this decision models. There are models that are not triggered by something out in the blue, they are actually be need to be monitored, and when something happens in the environment, it has to be changed. Let me give you an example of that. I built an agent at Gartner to just very simply. Uh, like, most of you may have done already to be able to schedule my travels. Uh, I do conferences like this 1 on a regular basis. So I put the code of the conference in Outlook. I just put 3 days and I put the code, the code knows where the conference is, it goes back into my calendar to see, memory to see what happened before. If I go to
[00:15:00] You buy at least 2 days earlier. If I come to London, I can leave the day before if I go and so on it knows, then the days I have to leave. Then I have an API and my agent goes to conquer which is our travel system to be able to look at the flights. It looks at the travel policy as well. It has my credit card to buy the flights, which gave a heart attack to my CFO by the way because the agent buys the flights by itself, I put a cap on it, I put a cap just in case and at the same time once it buy the flight, it comes back into my agenda and put the flights.
[00:15:29] Only thing I did was just to put the code and in all of that, what we realized that this the system doesn't work. If I ask it, it's just monitors by calendar on regular basis and an event triggers that entire process thing that happens in the background.
[00:15:45] Since then my it Department fought me like hell for the apis that were using.
[00:15:49] How dare I. And actually, I understand them if every analyst does that on a regular basis, and start building things around it, where are we going with this? So the idea though, is that once we started to understand how the workflow processes information and is able to be organized, then we are getting those kind of capabilities on the top.
[00:16:08] So using decision intelligence for that mint, in that case, I gave you also to get the data first to have many of these tactics at my disposal. I use my rule-based capability for the compliance side of my flights. I use an optimization model, a very small 1 to look at the different capacities that I have. And the the stop times, if I stop by Heathrow,
[00:16:30] For example, on the way to somewhere 2 hours is not enough.
[00:16:33] I know that 3 is barely safe, but if I do that via Hong Kong, for example, that's a lot faster for me to be able to go through. So, in order to look into that, I use the right techniques for the right problems that I have, which leads me to, then be able to replicate some of those decisions across my applications, which then lead to either 3 scenarios. I can even use that technology to support my decision which we have done for decades now, I can do that also, and very often people jump to automation right away. You don't have to augmentation. Often is the right way to go for most application that I have seen. In the case that I gave you, of course, very small example. That was an automation part of what I was doing.
[00:17:15] Now, some of these complex decision tools can be fairly large. This is an example of a supply chain. Uh, decision flow that came from conversight, but many of the decision intelligent platforms will be able to map something like that. And the idea is that once we mapped out that decision flow, we have the ability to do 2. Things 1, is that when the machine is giving an advice to the operator, it can explain the reasoning and what it went through in order to make that decision. But the other Advantage is, it has it that? Now I can also try to understand where can I build agents into this?
[00:17:50] Where is it safe? And as you can see, the agent doesn't replace the workflow all together. It just plays a role in. Assisting us that documentation part I was talking.
[00:18:00] About in that flow here, which is a real Case by the way. So this is how that representation of decision flows and how to orchestrate agents across those from a business perspective is really helped again Serendipity by this decision intelligence platforms.
[00:18:17] So,
[00:18:19] autonomy is 1 of the things I said is essential to agents. That's part of their core characteristics and we started to move slowly, but surely, as we do the mutation to the automation part to that automation piece, which, with autonomous systems. Now that means that this systems have to earn
[00:18:37] the trust that we can give them to delegate some of the tasks and the problem comes from the fact that what
[00:18:45] Is the level of autonomy, we're looking at. So, I look at some of my defense colleagues to be able to understand. Also, how they've been dealing with this because they have been dealing with this for quite a while now. And there's different levels of that we can decide to delegate, but with some guard rails and some guard rails could be human in the loop kind of thing. So, human, as a restricted time to veto before automatic execution that works. Well,
[00:19:08] except if you are a bank and you're authorizing credit cards, and you're doing 3 million of them every 20 seconds,
[00:19:15] You cannot have a human vetoing. Anything at that moment, the level of that is that it executes and it can actually inform humans if it's necessary. There's a compliance thing that says that humans have to be aware. What's going on? The third level, we can execute on
[00:19:30] Automatically but then it's not necessary to inform humans. We only do it. If asked or if an exception happens into the system,
[00:19:38] We can exit automatically and from humans only if the machine decides to or even if it says that, its model says, we have something happening here. We need to be able to revert, to a human being. And finally, the machine decides ignoring humans
[00:19:52] Now, all of these system, all these models of of of autonomy are real and they are often again. God read by the level of trust that we give to those agents to be able to perform that autonomously because they don't make 1 decisions a minute. They make 1 decision every half hour every fraction of a second and so it can accumulate very quickly and I'll show you
[00:20:15] An example where that has happened. Now, we think delegation and autonomy are the toughest problems we've seen nothing yet.
[00:20:22] Because after that, it goes to other levels of yet autonomy capabilities. It goes to the fact that we can orchestrate, and I'll give you an example of that. A coordination coordination means that you do not have an agent, orchestrating, all the agents, I dependent, and they work with each other to achieve a goal.
[00:20:39] How do they do that? Well, they use Game Theory techniques, for example, right to be able to negotiate. But then we are out of the loop as well, and they have to make those decisions by themselves. Collectively. And then we go to the emerging properties. We already seeing some collection of Agents, starting to make up their own rules because it's faster because it's easier because they can communicate better. So, how do you make sure?
[00:21:00] Sure that those emerging properties are on par with the governance level you gave.
[00:21:04] And then you get self-organizing principles where we already are seeing some agents in the Swarm kind of examples. For example, where they actually build the tractors and build levels of autonomy, that they also Direct by themselves building their own rules. So we still have to look at the fact that by doing that we are limiting the control as we go through now.
[00:21:24] Uh so I teach at the Illinois Institute of Technology in in Chicago and I asked my students to build agents and put only llm in agents or use traditional foundational, AI techniques and assemble them together, and this is what we got.
[00:21:38] So, we determine what complexity and uncertainty means. So we have different criteria for that. And then we look at the
[00:21:45] Number of Agents, they develop and very quickly. You can see after 5 agents or 6 agents using llm engineer TV, a kind of models we lose control very quickly because if there's 1 problem that start to happen on 1st is Dem, multiplying that problem and it moves very quickly it is also true from a traditional AI technique. You can see that there's still a level that of of uncertainty that we are seeing, but it's much flatter.
[00:22:14] The idea is not to not use llm, that's not my message. My message is use those but guardrail them. Use other AI techniques to control the output, or the input that are getting into these LMS to try to make sure that they are reliability. Stay at a level.
[00:22:30] That you can automate at scale through complex, kind of scenarios, that's the message. So let's make llms or let's make Jatt v as reliable as possible. Using other AI techniques,
[00:22:42] The orchestrating example is what we are starting to see now where people are using those kind of agents to master and communicate with other agents, but they hold the decision power and they hold the orchestration piece. We are starting very I've seen very few applications where that happens. Cross platform, where an agent is able to do that on a cross-platform perspective. Mine for example, by very small example, is that right? It uses many kind of applications and orchestrate, the flow across those applications. And I've not seen many of those yet just in Prototype, and
[00:23:15] Proof of Concepts, but the ability to do that across the web not being able to address to do that internally or within application, I own. But that's where we going and evolving towards. As you know, the complexity and the control will diminish as we move forward. Let me give you 3 practical examples of that.
[00:23:31] 1 is actually a real estate company. They have a process 17, work steps to be able to deliver a loan to a young couple to buy a property. They are coast to coast in the US, so there are millions of properties.
[00:23:44] When it's not doing that, they realize that each of these steps and the process Tech. 10 days, each of these steps are actually independent. They are not really dependent on each other for the data perspective. So they build an agent for each of those steps.
[00:23:57] And they started to say now that we build
[00:24:00] Those agents, we're going to build an orchestrator agent, that's going to monitor all of them and use that kind of model.
[00:24:06] In that idea, there's 2 advantages. 1 is that all of those can happen in parallel? So on the original flow as you go sequentially, if on the 16th step something went wrong, you wasted 9 days.
[00:24:20] And all those steps before were lost here. They can actually check very quickly whether or not 1 of the agent goes wrong. So it takes only 2 days to operate because if 1 goes wrong, the agent raises its hand and say, hey, something is wrong, please fix the problem, what happened more? Often than not, the problem was the data issue. How many kids do they have? Where is their Bank? How is their bank account capped, and the advantage?
[00:24:45] That instead of waiting until the end to decide whether or not they can validate, they can do it at each step.
[00:24:52] For each agent. So what happens was that with the same level of risk fixing the data problem, they could actually have a transaction up of 17%
[00:25:02] So the goal was to reduce the time, which is done 10 to 2 days but also they actually have the transaction comes up and then can make a decision process result and push that information over. Parallelization and interdependencies of tasks is really critical the next step for them was to actually build the catalog of all those agents. But not just the agents, a catalog of the subprocesses as well, that can be reused by many other tasks. Also, now that they know that these
[00:25:30] Agents are actually reliable for that. What they are trying to do.
[00:25:34] The second example is an insurance company here in Europe. Actually a very large 1 changing processes is really hard often, so they had actually this for looking into settling claims. They use a traditional a foundational machine learning model to do that first and the ability to push the idea. Now, if it's actually the No, No flow, no, no fraud, it pushes into a 10-day settle. They put an agent in there and pushed it and automated it to 2 days, but the genius in come from that.
[00:26:01] First they started to do that found 2, they settle. And then they said, what if we actually have the agent since it's a positive event, make a recommendation, a sales recommendation for the person lo and behold to buy pressure 5%.
[00:26:15] Sent out of a 100 uh, recommendation. They made, they got 5% out of it. But then they said, what if we use an agent and we combine it with the human,
[00:26:24] What if the agent makes recommendation? And then we have a human being going on the phone and settling that
[00:26:31] Yes, it takes 1 more day but look at that pipeline ratio.
[00:26:36] It becomes 1 of the best sales pipeline, it's a call center 1 of the best sales pipeline in the company.
[00:26:43] Because the human element here, added so much to the transactions that it actually was very conducive for the buying part of that. So here's a combination of humans and agents working together accelerating but also fixing the problem.
[00:26:56] The last 1 is actually a center that uh, something we don't.
[00:27:00] For quite a while. But it works a lot better with Gina tvi today having a human being commanding. The process. A salesperson is on the phone and the systems, the agent listens and read the screen and make recommendations or start preparing documents has a transaction evolves and at the end just have to push the button to get the agent to execute all the traditional tasks if the outcome is positive by being able to do that. So they work in parallel, in that sense, it's an assistive kind of a scenario. It's also an organization. A retail organization here in Europe, that does those kind of things.
[00:27:34] All right.
[00:27:36] How do we recommend part of that? There is a lot of hype around agent, AI today and my 1 of my main issue and believe me that is also true.
[00:27:45] Within Gartner is that uh, people tend to confuse generative AI energetic, AI or AI short, and they are very, very separate practices. So don't fall to the height. There's a lot of things where agents are not needed. And to be honest with you, I have to admit in all the use cases, I'm being proposed to and I talked to clients to 85% can be done without agents.
[00:28:08] Don't you just need Automation in some parts and an RPA will do.
[00:28:13] The digital intelligence part of that is an interesting principle. I've seen a lot of information flows and decision flows started to be used by those kind of capabilities and it makes really wonder. It's really a good 1.
[00:28:25] The use cases where agent makes a difference, have intrinsic capabilities on the example. I show.
[00:28:30] Told you you've seen that paralyzation capability. The known inter dependencies are some of those tasks the level of autonomy and reliability. You're looking for to be able to make that. Peter then Hammer, my colleague. I was here on stage, right? Before me made, actually a small tool that as you pass your use case through it, it gives you an estimate of whether or not agents will be relevant for that. So here's a tool that exists for this implementation of comprehensive AI literacy program is important as people start to automate their own things.
[00:28:59] Their own tasks within their own desktops when it start connecting to a process. What happens?
[00:29:06] How they can it do that? If they connect that little stuff, they do to their process and then how does it affect 1 of their colleagues, who's doing their own thing, as well on their desktops?
[00:29:15] And so on. So being able to get a full map of what's Happening becomes critical for that otherwise, it's chaos.
[00:29:22] Finally, the next state of the agent is going to be simulations. You cannot really test agents. You have to simulate it when they run and you can only do that if you have a simulation environment when it is at runtime, simulation is not a given. If all of your engineers in the room, you know what I'm talking about. If you're not Engineers, simulation is something you might have done in 1 class in college. But often it's not something. We are very familiar with
[00:29:48] Like John Boyd, the guy from the Huda Loop. The colon from the left side, who we can handle the quicker server, change survive and that's what they have to put in place for the US Air Force at the time. We've written extensively on that.
[00:30:00] And I re I recommend you to reach to to read some of that research and we keep doing that on a weekly basis because it changes that fast.
[00:30:08] I'm very grateful for the time that you spent with me today. I know, it's precious. So, thank you very much for coming and giving me that time. Thank you.