[00:00:04] So I am the Analyst at Gartner and 1 of the, my biggest areas of focus is value creation.
[00:00:11] So while we talk about AI authentic, AI gen AI, all of that kind of stuff. Ultimately, a lot of my conversations with our clients lead to, um, did I get value creation? And what we're actually finding is that value is trapped.
[00:00:29] And so how do you unlock the ROI or the artificial intelligence driven Roi? Um and 1, big area is organizational change, there are several different components but I'm going to focus today on.
[00:00:45] Ultimately, what are the ways that you need to do a paradigm shift, um, through your organization in order to do that? Um, so I always like to start with a little bit of data of setting. The stage of what is the actual problem that's happening. So there's 3 pieces of data here. The first 1 is from a board of directors study that Gartner does um every single year. Um, so what we actually found, um, continually is that the growth of AI is going to continue unabated, because these first 2 pieces of data, the first 1 from the board of directors, is 63% of board of directors, are still looking at, not just AI, but Technology, Innovation, as 1 of their top, you know?
[00:01:30] Strategy areas to navigate through these areas of uncertainty. So the board is many of the boards of directors and this is across this, the statistic um, is valid across a lot of the different regions of the world. So Asia Europe. Um, North America Latin America and so on. Um, so that's that's number 1, so they're continuing to be very focused on this. And on the second 1 is from our CEO, sort of study and CEOs when you ask them 72% are still, you know, really looking to AI as 1 of their biggest bets um for how they're going to drive sort of growth um and value in their organization. So this isn't an AI winter. This
[00:02:15] Isn't kind of a a year that we're going into and people are cutting budgets on AI. There's actually we think there's going to continue to be a lot of spending despite some of the economic uh turns. And now we get to the last 1 where, um, there when we talked to CFOs Chief Financial officers, only 11% saying, essentially that they feel comfortable getting on an earnings, call talking to the boards of directors, talking to either an internal or external audience and showing that audit trail of how they actually spent AI money on AI, but also got value creation. Um, if we go through another year like this, so this has been roughly true, um, of CFOs and not just CFO.
[00:03:00] This is a lot of cios and many others. So we have every 1 of these data points. I could have shown you probably another 5 slides to Showcase this these Concepts. Um, so we if we go through another year like that, where there is no R in Roi, no return on investment. Then I think we're going to be having a different conversation next year because it would be the third year in a row that this is actually like happening, right? So your job um, is really to enable that value creation and that means, you know, sort of picking The Right Use cases. That means actually, before you start investing thinking through what is that? Proof of value. So 1 of the reasons is when we see this continuing we sort of start by saying well why is this really?
[00:03:45] Happening, 1. Big reason that it's happening and 1 of the most frequent questions I've gotten for the last 18 months is, how do I increase productivity of my my people? How do I get rid of headcount? Or if I get rid of headcount, won't that automatically sort of, you know, give me um, some benefits, right? Because I'm going to reduce my um, at least my, my headcount expense which for many companies is high. Well, first of all, if you reduce headcount that is a 1 fiscal year benefit meaning you get the benefit in that quarter or that year. But then next year, if someone doesn't say oh yeah 2 years ago you had this many people or you did this. No they still want you to create value. That's number 1, but number 2 is even if you don't get rid
[00:04:30] Of any people and you increase productivity per head, that is the wrong focus and I'm going to show you why.
[00:04:37] So, some clients believe that because they've tried it for a couple of months or over a year and they've come back and said okay now I understand what you're saying and then we have a lot of clients that don't believe that. So for those non-believers I'll walk you through some data and again I could have probably put 30 slides here, I chose to put 3. Um so this is an example of a call center.
[00:04:59] And so you have 2 people that work in the call center 1 is Alicia and 1 is Alvaro and in a in Alicia's case she's actually pretty new to the company. Um, and so she's only been there 6 months in the role but she actually works on her experiences low and her essentially,
[00:05:15] Job complexity is relatively low, she's working off a of a script and then you have Albero and he actually has been there quite a long time, and he has, you know, sort of high job experience. But his also the they're doing the same job roughly. So his complexity is low and if you gave them both an AI tool, um, you'll actually get a very unequal level of benefits from productivity. So first productivity, despite the tools, it's what I call very lumpy, it's extremely unequal inconsistent. So it's very hard. First of all to estimate how much productivity you're going to gain. Um, and this is just on looking at 1 variable, which is, you know, years of experience. When you do something like this with software developers, you get the
[00:06:00] 2-year software developer who trusts the tool a lot more and so therefore they end up just using it all the time and they create more sort of buggy code when you uh, the 5 to 7 or 8 year software developers don't trust it at all. So they end up spending a lot of time. So we've done this in a number of different functions. You get uh again a very lumpy or inconsistent thing but you know, someone would look at this and say, yeah, but I'm still getting productivity benefit. Okay, fair enough.
[00:06:29] So now you look at this study right? And this study we pulled for those who can't see it in the back, there's 1600 people who are part of this study and we again have multiple different empirical studies that are showing us the same thing. So what you're seeing along the bottom is
[00:06:45] We saved some people 1 Hour, 2 hours, 3 hours, 4 hours, 5 hours. And then we actually asked the managers, the leaders of these people. What was the increase in performance? And we asked in a different ways, the performance of the team, we asked it. Did you get more Revenue? Did you call costs? We looked at a lot of different variables and what you actually see is a flat line, you don't see any precipitous change, regardless of the number of hours you saved. And so hence, we sort of over many different Studies have come to this conclusion that, you know, productivity per person or FTE specific productivity, we call a very low value benefit. It's not that it's valid, not valuable, it's that, this time does not.
[00:07:30] Time saved does not translate into money saved.
[00:07:35] So essentially we've actually published this in 15 different research notes at Gartner because we feel pretty strongly that this is true. We've proven it in many, many business cases. And 1 of the reasons is, if you save people time, what happens is unless you change their metric unless you say, hey friend. I've I've you know, given you back 20 hours a month or a week or whatever. Unless my boss comes to me and says you now have to produce 3 more research notes or 5 more presentations, or you have to do more client calls until my metric of output of Revenue producing activity, I picked those 3 things.
[00:08:15] That I just mentioned very specifically because those are the areas for a Gartner, analyst that create revenue for Gartner, right? So, it isn't just any activity that. My manager has to tell me to change. It's either a revenue producing activity or an activity that's going to reduce costs.
[00:08:32] So, essentially, reduce latency reduce cycle time, uh, reduce errors, increase quality, all the things that drive a kpi that flow to a profit and loss statement flow to the general ledger, either on the cost side or the revenue side. So this is a, um, a pretty important thing. And what's actually happened, and this is a quote from 1 of our clients. And the way, uh, this client mentioned it is,
[00:09:00] We have many many examples in our company of what we call Blue money, what is blue money? Blue money, is that productivity benefit the some inefficiencies that we rectified. But what we really want is green money, um, and green money is the money that actually flows to a p&l
[00:09:19] Now, when I first saw this quote, it's actually not money, blue money and green money is not a Gartner term, it's actually used. I thought it was actually more us-centric because our money in the United States is green, um, and we get a lots of, uh, uh, feedback on that. My, my parents are from Greece and they're like, why don't you guys actually have money. So you can, the big bills are a different color than the small bills. But anyway, the point is is this is actually used.
[00:09:45] A lot as well in Europe and in other places. Here's what it sort of uh means whoops.
[00:09:52] What it really means. Regardless of what color you use is that we call, you know, blue money is the money that does not flow to a p&l.
[00:10:02] So these are things, here are some examples productivity is 1 that I just explained but someone says oh I'm going to increase our net promoter score or I'm going to increase customer satisfaction or I'm going to have cost avoidance. I used to pay uh Accenture or Deo or Tata or Infosys or cognizant or any of the companies that you might use at atos any of the companies you might use. I was going to pay them, 20 million euros,
[00:10:30] For a project but now I'm only going to pay them 5 million. That's all great. Those are valuable things, but they do not flow to, they do not train, uh, translate very easily or sometimes at all into Financial monetary numbers. So it's not saying that you shouldn't do these that they're not beneficial, it's that the CFO is not going to pay a lot of attention to them because he, she, or, they need to actually talk to, um, shareholders and talk to Boards of directors. What is, um, things that drive green money are things that flow to a p&l. So, for example, if you were actually doing an AI initiative that focused on increasing sales conversion rate, and so
[00:11:15] So you can translate that very quickly to sort of say, okay, if I increase my sales conversion rate by 10 basis points, I'm actually, you know, going to change or have a revenue uplift. So we have all, lots and lots of these metrics, um, on gartner.com, you know, there are actually or organized by function, sales marketing, customer service finance, procurement HR, all of these different areas. So when we in our we have a value calculator that we use on on garner.com and with our clients to sort of help people calculate value. If you go through that calculator, the first thing, but 1 of the early things you have to do is where is there a direct correlation for the AI initiative to a specific kpi?
[00:12:00] And how much and by what time Horizon, right, it isn't just, I'm going to increase sales conversion rate. It's like, am I going to do it in 3 months? Am I going to do it in 6 months 1 year? Am I going to get it in the same fiscal year? So it flows into the p&l. I'm going to skip over these 2 slides. I included them, because Gartner has a lot of work on. How do you convert blue money into, um, green money? And the reason is is that lots of people have started their projects and the way they got them approved, is they actually had a nice PowerPoint with bullet points, but they didn't actually have data Associated to the p&l. So, if you started your project, you can read this particular, research notes, that tells you how do you shift some of the money, um, from Blue.
[00:12:45] Money and to to green money and things like that. So I won't go over that. What instead I really want to jump in and sort of say okay we've defined the problem. We've figured this all out. Where do we start?
[00:12:57] The first place that you start is by not using the term AI or gen AI or authentic, AI is 1 big noun, right? I said, I have people who sort of say, oh, I'm doing AI or I'm doing the AI initiative and they could be talking about anything. They could be talking about a very, very big Spectrum, right? So eventually you have to create some language in your own organization and we have examples on on garner.com of different ways that you can show that Spectrum. We have a 5 you know, uh buckets.
[00:13:30] Sort of or category scale, we have a 3 category scale, whatever you want to use and you don't have to use what we are espousing, right? You can use whatever you want, but it's the common language or currency that everyone in your organization is going to use. And here's why.
[00:13:46] If in our sort of 2 ends of our Spectrum, we call it every day Ai, and we call the other end game-changing AI. So every day AI have, and these 2 things, these ends of the spectrum have very different completely different value propositions and, um, focuses on business models. So, let me just show you
[00:14:08] So every day, AI are things like Microsoft, co-pilot, the Microsoft 365. Co-pilot nothing wrong with.
[00:14:15] This tool. Um, but the reality is, is, we've done well over between 60 and 100, uh, business cases. And we have yet to find 1 where the value creation that goes to the p&l exceeds the cost that you're going to spend, not just the cost that you spent with Microsoft but all the other costs around governance around data, around security, around all training, all of those kinds of things, right? So people do report, um, that they save something like 14 minutes, um, per day on certain things. But again, very lumpy number. So the average actually isn't always uh, indicative of what's really happening. Um, and then 80% of employees, actually say, I love that my employer gave me a tool, right?
[00:15:00] But if you actually look at the data and there's data like this on Microsoft's own website, there's this is a particular study that 1 of our analysts did with a client, right? So this is real data from a client and this is a small number of users. We've done it with over 10,000 users. And this is over showing a 3-month period. What was the adoption rate? So the the, uh, orange line is saying, how many active users did you have after 3 months? And even when you did a training session and you got a spike up and so there's a very big um white sort of space between the number of licenses that were purchased. And by the way, do not say do not leave this room and say, Gartner said don't buy Microsoft, Microsoft is absolutely.
[00:15:45] Uh, a really good product. Lots of people use it. This is the reason I'm using this is because it's 1 of the most highly purchased products when I'm explaining to you is that this is not the area where you're going to bring this to the CFO and say, this is where we got all of this Roi from our investment. But what this is actually doing in and tools like it what the tools are doing is they're increasing the AI uh literacy of your people, they're increasing your digital dexterity. They're increasing some happiness Factor around your employees so they're doing what we call employee empowerment. So when people use these tools, instead of using the calculation of Roi, we call it at Gartner row.
[00:16:30] We return on employee and we have a whole methodology to explains. How do you tell the story of what value? This is providing. So it is providing value. It is not necessarily providing something. That is of financial value that will lead to a p&l, right? And now on the Other Extreme, this is a, a, a 1 example, of many that we have. So this is a company. If you haven't heard of it, it's called Robinhood, right? It's similar to a lot of investment companies, um, that are around the world. And, um, it was very interesting in in late 2024, early 2025 this company sort of came out and said we're going to let you autonomously invest, you know, you give us your money and it's going to be autonomously invested. So it's pretty, it's pretty uh, you know, sort of
[00:17:15] Maverick kind of, um, offering in the market. So when this happened, imagine you were a competing bank that or, you know, some kind of investment bank and you sort of, have a couple of different choices here, right? You could sort of say I'm going to start working on my version of this and have a competing offering or I'm going to sort of say no, no, you don't want a, a robot or a bot or some kind of agent autonomously investing in your things. So I would combat it with marketing material. You could do a lot of things but the reality is things like this. Ultimately, they didn't actually bring this to Market, but you could do a lot of things like this, that are game-changing, right? That if they were to do this or things like this, right? What would happen?
[00:18:00] Happen is they would have a source of Revenue that required no headcount that required all of these different things. And so it's an acid-based, you know, income stream its intellectual property that you're actually sort of selling at a very low. Um, cost very high margin, um, and it's actually sort of showcasing some kind of AI first strategy, right? So there's lots and lots of those. Um, and I use that 1 purposes because it's pretty innocuous, right? I don't want to get into like all these debates about all of these things. But the reality is, when we talk about all these things at Gartner, we tell you that you really need to have a portfolio. You actually need to have all all of these things, but the highest value ones are the ones in the middle.
[00:18:45] So, I talked about the 2 extrait.
[00:19:30] Now how good that platform is going to be is different but the reality is is this is what you get marginal or incremental gains, right? And you don't get Roi from this. The 1 in the middle is where you're either growing your market share, growing your Revenue growing, something about your profitability and so we call the first 1 Defenders here, you're just defending your position but here you're getting competitive Advantage. Now, the real question is what is the life of that competitive Advantage? Do you get that competitive Advantage for 1, 2 3, 4 years. So the better your product or offering is and the better Your solution is the bigger your competitive Advantage would be right. And so the last 1 is those game-changing ideas.
[00:20:15] Right, and the percentages that you see at the bottom, those are just a working suggestion. Every organization has very different numbers down here because every organization has a different profile for risk. Every organization has different goals for what kind of return they want to get in any given year, right? But generally speaking most organizations that are for profit, right? What they're trying to do is put a lot of their bigger projects in the middle so that they could fund the ones that are that are on the on the 2 ends of it. So, 1 of the things we talk about is you're going to manage these very differently. You want to manage the first 1 like a cost center. Um, you want to manage the second 1 more like a
[00:21:00] Profit Center and you want to manage the third 1 more like a VC, write a a venture capitalist, right? Because only 1, in 20 of these ideas is going to actually work. Um then when you actually want to calculate value it's only the middle 1. That's going to primarily be the source of Roi. This 1. I talked about return on employee. The other 1, we call return on the future because those are things that are often multiple fiscal years and you're investing in certain things that you need to build your foundation or you want to build you know, going forward
[00:21:34] And um all of these are really premised on, you know, how you're going to measure them. So these are things, you know, the ones that are operational, they tend to be
[00:21:45] Be more operational metrics that you look at the ones that are in the middle tend to be Financial metrics. And the last ones Ned to be, we call them signals are leading indicators that you're going to look at. But if you want to present this to your management team, I included some slides here where you're actually explaining this, we call it kind of this Arc of, you know, the the AI the spectrum of value. So if you look when you're doing everyday AI you're not getting the pie chart. There is the size of value, right? And what you're really doing is getting some productivity, right? Um, and as you move up, you get more efficiency. But once you squeeze all the efficiency out of the process because you're not going to go down to zero.
[00:22:30] Um, you're gonna focus on Effectiveness or efficacy and then you're going to focus on business agility and then if you're doing these game-changing things, you're going to change industry value. So these are the commensurate questions that you're asking. Internally of like how we're going to do this, right? So those are charts that you could that you could use when you're having these conversations. But now I want to get into the Practical and tactical like how are you going to do this? Alright, so the first thing is you need to switch your focus. Those people that are focused on employee empowerment or FTE. All of that productivity stuff you need to actually shift and say I need to talk about process. Not people and I know that sounds weird, right? Because you
[00:23:15] Always want to care about your people. I'm just saying you want to do it in a different order. You want to spend that Arrow, the other way, you want to start with process and that will lead you to how that's going to impact your people and act accordingly. So what is this, like, how do you really need to think about this? Here's an example. Let's say you're a bank, right? Or you're a financial institution, if you focus on the inputs, on the labor, on the cost of labor on all of the different inputs to the process. If you do kind of 3 levels of things, if you do something simple, you would augment the people. If you go a little more, you might autonomously execute a task in the whole process. If you go a little more, you're going to reduce headcount, which a lot of people are doing, we would argue
[00:24:00] You shouldn't even look at it this way, that's the, uh, the way that people are looking at it. Now, they're looking at it from an input Focus. Like, what are all the costs in the input of the process? If you look at it on an output driven Focus, you're actually now you're the bank. You're saying how do I produce a faster loan?
[00:24:18] How do I actually create a higher quality loan?
[00:24:22] Right? So I have less bad debt, right? And how do I produce new types of loans?
[00:24:28] If you actually that is your starting point, that's more of a game changer. So what we're actually saying is shift your focus, the first organizational change. You want to make is shift the focus from all the inputs to much more of the outputs as your starting point.
[00:24:45] Of how I'm going to calculate value. And here's a real example from a client, this is a Japanese client, they make uh, produce U, they discover chemicals and then they sell them. Right? So if you look really quickly at their cost, they actually spent 20 million on their AI solution. But guess what happened when they got into it? They did a PC, they did a pilot, they did all these things. They actually realized we have to spend a lot more money on changing our process. And this is a really hard process R&D in this company and I picked this 1, specifically, they've got data scientists, they have chemical Engineers. They have all these people that have a lot of knowledge in their head, and not a lot of knowledge written down. There's definitely processes, of course because they're in a chemical industry, they're dealing with
[00:25:30] You know, safety issues. But this is very hard to do. But they actually spent 3 more than 3 times 70 million dollars, right? For a total of 90 million in order to work on this. And when they were done, they actually, as you could see, they discovered as of the um, writing of this. They've actually discovered more, but they discovered 180 new chemicals, at 1.5 million Revenue each for 270 million benefit. But look at if you read the fine print on the right, you'll see their headcount went up.
[00:26:03] Right, not down. Right? And so their number of data scientists went up in other areas, they might have gone down. So I have many many, uh, case studies. I showed 1 the other day. I'm going to show 1 tomorrow where I
[00:26:15] I can show you many examples, sometimes it goes up. Sometimes it goes down, it doesn't have to do with the productivity per person. It has to do with the value, contribution per person. I want to show you that in a few slides.
[00:26:26] But while the IT people, the data and analytics people the security people, everybody is actually working on the solution. The organizational change that has to happen on the functional side. The business people have to focus on these 5 things. They actually have to spend their time thinking about how is the process going to the workflow going to be redesigned.
[00:26:48] And how is the operating model, not just the organizational structure but the operating model going to change for us to execute. How are you going to upskill or reskill the humans?
[00:27:00] How are you going to change the metrics? Remember the example, I gave where I got? 20 hours back, how's my boss? Going to change my metrics of the humans and then how are you going to define the metrics that you tell the data? The analytics, the IT team, the AI team, how are you going to tell them? I need this machine, or this agent to process, a minimum of 2,000 invoices a week or whatever. The number is, you have to actually give them. What are the metrics in order to make this whole process work? And then finally, you have to spend time in gendering Trust
[00:27:34] So if you approved an AI initiative today, right? Or tomorrow, when you go back to the office and the go live date is September 1st.
[00:27:45] Future while the technology team the data team everybody's working on that solution. You don't want the business. People sitting around saying, okay, well I'm just waiting until September 1. They're supposed to be working on this if they're not. If in your raci chart, the responsibility and accountability for this is not working, you're not going to get the value. This is the key to the organizational change that has to be made, and people have to be working in synchronicity to do this. So, here's an example of what I'm talking about of shifting from productivity, uh, Focus to Value Focus. Imagine this is a pyramid of not your whole company but 1 function of your company. This is important, right? So this isn't meant to be an org chart.
[00:28:30] But I use the metaphor of a of a law firm. Let's say you were, we were, uh, all of us in this room were a big law firm and we have some lawyers that generate 100 euros per hour. We have some, uh, in the yellow, some lawyers that generate 400 euros per hour and then 600, and then a thousand Euros per hour.
[00:28:49] The idea of this is that if you're empowering these people, and you're automating some of the things, you don't only want to automate the bottom.
[00:28:58] You actually have to automate and you have to apply AI all the way to the top, right? And we have lots of examples of of that, but you're going to do different things. You might put agents, you might put Bots. You might augment the humans. And what you're ultimately going to do is you're changing.
[00:29:15] The makeup of the people not the org structure but it's going to might look like a diamond instead of a pyramid and let's just say that you had no reduction in headcount and I realized the little people is not the same on the right. It's meant to be an an illustration but imagine the same number of people are on the left and on the right but what you've done on the right is you've elevated the people in green to a higher billing rate?
[00:29:44] So now you have more people at 400 or 600 euros per hour so therefore your total revenue on the right is higher.
[00:29:52] And hopefully you've kept your margins in a good place. So you don't have less lawyers, you actually want more lawyers, right? And so
[00:30:00] The reality is just like the Japanese chemical company that it isn't always your headcount reduction. Because what you're really doing here is you're not the if you if there was a vertical axis here you're Shifting the value contribution, not the productivity. Now I use the law firm specifically because it's easy to connect Revenue to persons. It's not always as easy to do that for every function in your company. So this isn't a drawing of the whole company. This is a drawing on function by function and it might not always be a diamond, it might have various shapes, right? So you might, you know, sort of take off pieces on the bottom of the triangle, you might take off sides of the triangle. You might actually take off.
[00:30:45] The bottom or change it so in different functions it'll look differently. It's not like it's going to shape exactly the same way, but the concept of explaining it to drive organizational. Change is really what I'm talking about and so given time
[00:31:01] my I'm running short on time, what you're really doing is recalibrating skills, not jobs, you're actually need to think about how do I reorganize the skills that are needed to do the function? And when you do this, you can likely get, especially in areas of it, almost? Uh, we've seen real studies where almost 80% of the labor hours can be modified or changed or disrupted so I didn't say reduced or take
[00:31:30] Out disrupted is the real word that's important in the sentence and in the future, you're not going to be able to do what people did, which is we said, oh I'm just going to cut the headcount, right? Because your business cases are going to be in reconcilable because you're going to have more technology running the process. So your biggest cost is not going to be headcount. So your business case is based on inputs is not going to be correct, right? So I'll just leave you with this last item here and that is we went through the era of moving offshore. So we were focused on cheaper than faster than better, which was Labor Arbitrage.
[00:32:07] We've now, we went through RPA and automation Arbitrage, so we were focused on faster.
[00:32:13] and then,
[00:32:15] In this era right now where we're now talking about changing our process and people have been talking about changing process since the 80s right business process re-engineering, you're going to be forced to do this um through Ai. And ultimately if you really want to build resiliency, you're going to really think about changing your business model. So figure out where you are on this curve and use that as a way of driving organizational, change in your company.
[00:32:44] Thank you so much for your time.