[00:00:03] My name is Lydia fergusen, and I'm so excited to have everyone here today.
[00:00:09] So to start off our session, I thought I would start with something a little bit more personal, um, I'm relatively newer to Gardiner. I've been here just over 3 years. And before that, I was probably sitting in a very similar situation that a lot of you might be sitting in meaning. I led a data and analytics team for many years and we would spend put so much effort into building reports and dashboards, uh, beautiful, uh, data visualization. And we were so excited.
[00:00:45] As we walked into meetings and we were excited about the decisions that we were going to make the progress, the uh, analytics that we were going to be able to propose and we would slowly watch the meeting derail.
[00:00:59] It would always start with questions of well, where did this data come from? Or is this the last refresh date or someone down the table would say, well that doesn't match what I pulled and slowly. We would watch the decisions that we needed to make be replaced by debates about lineage refresh. Dates reports do not matching and I'll be honest, it was very frustrating and honestly we needed a better way.
[00:01:30] and not by relabeling renaming everything as all of a sudden a product, but by being intentional on those data sets that scaled and served 1 to many,
[00:01:42] And if we take a kind of a zooming out from that meeting the problem, really only gets better bigger that so many areas of the business, need scalable reusable data. The pressure is honestly radiating from everywhere. And especially with AI and AI enablement, uh, really, again, putting pressure on reusable scalable data.
[00:02:11] That AI enablement uh, needs trusted outputs.
[00:02:15] For the models. Things like Regulatory and compliance requirements are raising the bar on lineage Auto auditability, Etc.
[00:02:25] Operational. Efficiencies something that I was experienced firsthand that. I cannot keep redoing the same pipelines rewriting the same jobs for, you know, operational 1 offset, even things like, you know, self-service analytics that they need trusted outputs. So again that we don't walk into that meeting and the reports still don't match
[00:02:50] So once we've identified the problem of scalable reusable data. The next question I immediately get asked is okay so
[00:03:00] What is a data product?
[00:03:02] Gartner defines a data product, as a curated self-contained combination of 4 primary things, we need the data of course, the metadata to serve as Packaging.
[00:03:15] Uh any shared semantics around that data. So if the same or similar areas refer to that data set, I have those shared semantics and we also need templates. So this scales
[00:03:28] And so really this supporting line represents that this is a very intentional effort of what goes into that data product. Um, it must be trusted by the consumers again that trust. If you don't have it, this data product will not scale.
[00:03:45] It has to be kept current by your engineering teams, uh, so that again, we understand what is the latest on that. Refresh date. It has to be governed with access controls again auditability, and really honestly above all, it has got to be reusable, it has to scale. That's the whole purpose of data products. Is that it serves again that 1 to many
[00:04:11] So I'll be honest when we Define the data product, the very, for next question that I get is who owns this thing. And to be honest, this is where most data products, strategies really stall.
[00:04:27] The moment we Define the product we jump, right?
[00:04:30] Straight to the same question, who owns it? Well, ask the business, well, that's not our job. Well, uh, who owns the data, what's going on. And it really is this tug and pull between business and it or data teams and the data product, really a reusable govern asset. We're not trying to assign ownership and on to 1 side or the other, but we want to make data product accountability explicit from the beginning while it's easy to say yes. The data owns their business process. They own the the the job that they were hired to do. Uh, but the data product manager needs someone, they are the ones who are steering the
[00:05:15] Product driving the adoption, really. Again, setting that strategy in roadmap for the product.
[00:05:22] So the move again, isn't to relabel. Everything is owned by 1 side. The move is really to make sure that you make product accountability, explicit from the beginning.
[00:05:33] So after we get out of the swirl and the trap of the ownership debate, the next logical point is okay, cool. So um, how exactly do I need to staff that data product manager role?
[00:05:47] And the what I see honestly are 3 paths uh 2. Are you know that they work. 1 really is to avoid.
[00:05:57] The ideal path is.
[00:06:00] A dedicated data product manager. This is someone whose job is they have, you know, data expertise product management, expertise and their job really is to steer that accountability of the data product, they set the vision and the road map. And here, this is, this is the ideal path because it makes that accountability very explicit from the very start with this role.
[00:06:26] And I'll be honest, I do see more and more organizations getting very serious about their data product man data products. And so they are Staffing dedicated data product managers, uh, it's very exciting. Uh, to be honest, I see a lot of kind of personal fulfillment coming out of this.
[00:06:45] Dedicated role.
[00:06:47] But the more pragmatic path, I'll be honest is really upskilling existing Talent. Uh, what I see typically is pro project managers where we have existing projects, that may be how your um delivering data today. Uh, but products or projects are are linear, they have a beginning middle and end. They have a timeline, they have a budget, but products are iterative. We have released it. We want to get better. And so what I'm seeing are some organizations splitting, their current project manager role and saying, for these dedicated data sets, we want you to do product management. And for others, we do typical
[00:07:30] Project management. I'm also seeing, uh, governance teams actually being, um, now serving as product, uh, data product managers as well. Uh, that's exciting, because I do see that this resonates better with the, um, with, with your business teams, uh, to where you are able to, uh, you know, they want to talk to to a product manager, uh, as opposed to, you know, someone on the governance side. So it's really helping with that.
[00:08:01] The uh, path to avoid. I'll be honest is simply rebranding the business. Um, well, yes, they own the process that they, you know, were hired to do.
[00:08:15] But when we send this and kind of Rebrand and put that over it, almost always fails to where they causes a lot of confusion. This is not the job that they were hired to do so while yes, we want to get our uh, engagement from our business partners. But simply handing this over and rebranding them again almost always fails.
[00:08:40] So, now that we understand again, how to the data product manager role now, really, it's around building that capability. So what I find works pretty well is a crawl. Walk run approach to data product management.
[00:08:58] The first around the crawl approach.
[00:09:00] To where I say starting with 1 product launching that first product, getting the feedback around again, what's working, what's not? The walk approach where we start to again, build more capabilities within that product, uh, getting serious about the packaging and otherwise this, at the walk approach is where your data product manager starts to become that kind of connective tissue within this. And then as we run, you know, we start to scale this with more and more, um, products that we have. Now we have data contracts, we might have a data Marketplace but the, the message on this is start small and build iteratively. That's
[00:09:45] The beauty of data products is that you don't have to have it. Perfect on the first pass start. That's the the first initial part of this and it will grow from there.
[00:09:56] So, before we dive into the architecture, which is I'm so excited to to review that in our session today, I did want to ground Us in some some overarching principles for the approaching the architecture. The first being following the, the product not necessarily the the systems that it's moving throughout, uh, really making sure that we're following the product and the various environments that your product is going to be living and moving within
[00:10:26] Next 1 is that, you know, we designed for scale not heroic.
[00:10:30] Uh, heroics do not scale overall and even things with AI or other enablement uh that they does that, that doesn't scale on hero work. So really, again, we are trying to build this for scale.
[00:10:45] Uh, operate where the data lives and moves. This is why understanding what your initial product is is going to be a very key part of this. Because again, we want to understand where it lives, where it moves, and where the customer is going to be picking that up.
[00:11:01] The accountability is explicit not implied. I cannot say how many times we have, you know, we've assigned folks, these roles and it's kind of implied but they really don't know that they're sitting in this role. So again, we want
[00:11:15] Make that accountability explicit. And then finally, the metadata is going to be that contract. We cannot do and scale these things. Um, by hand, uh, we need metadata to help with this. So again, metadata is going to play a very, very key role in all of this.
[00:11:33] So I wanted to talk through the reference architecture for data products. This is going to be again the full ecosystem by which your data products are going to live in. Uh we have of course the The Legend up top that's going to tie all of this together. But I really wanted to focus at this beginning part around some of the Architectural Components that are going to
[00:12:00] Be play a role in your data products. Uh, the first being your your sources of data, uh, this could be, you know, structured unstructured data, uh, they could be internal or external data. Again, understanding what kind of data we're actually going to be ingesting?
[00:12:18] Then of course is going to be your integration. Uh this is really kind of the the plumbing that that works with your data, as it starts to move, that we have different processes to integrate that data. But again, this is so vital because if the integration of the plumbing breaks those Downstream systems are going to break probably in different ways. So we want to make sure that is accounted for and then of course, we have our data management platforms. So under
[00:12:45] Understanding that we have different, uh, different platforms, different ways, and strategies around this, uh, data, uh, Lakes data, warehouses data, Marts, Etc. So understanding what your environment is, and then, of course, we have our analytics, uh, business insights AI, uh, more and more data products are really being built on this capability and then, of course, we have our deliverer phases. Well, um, a lot of this again, whenever I have to describe this, this is all happening right now. Even outside of data products, all of this is happening right now. Within your organizations underpinning that are critical capabilities as well. These would be your data governance.
[00:13:30] Program. Uh, how are we governing data overall, uh, metadata management of course, is a big part of this and then of course, that data observability. So we're Gathering those signals. So really, again, the point is that this is the environments that your data products are really going to live in and if any of these are weak or immature uh I'm looking at you data governance, it's really going to be weak and immature alongside again with your data products. So again, a big thing is this is understanding what the environment is uh, that your data products are going to live in.
[00:14:06] So the point of our discussion really is around data product management. I have here kind of cutting across the center
[00:14:15] Uh so really want what I wanted to do was walk through again, all of the components that go into your data product, how to think about them, where how they tie together with what exists today, uh so that you do have this full end to end process.
[00:14:32] So I'm going to dim the lights on this 1, and what I want to do to walk through this is I want to highlight the section that will be walking through. I want to pop it out for a focused point and then I'll pop it back in and we'll walk through that step by step.
[00:14:46] So the first part of this, of course, is going to be the data product itself.
[00:14:51] A data products, typically come in 3 forms. Uh we have Source, space Master data, and insights based data products.
[00:15:00] Um, again understanding what, how we're defining the data? Product, of course, is critical. So starting with Source base data, products Source base data products, come directly from a source or applications. Sometimes it might be an external data feed. That's typically the type of data product that I see with source-based um they all have their pros and cons. Uh, the pro was Source based is that you're able to pull data directly from sources and you might have it maybe integrated team that needs that this is a good option. If you have multiple erps and I need 1 view of a general ledger. Um but I also see external data sets being a good option for Source space.
[00:15:45] The next 1, uh Master data products, this is what Gartner would say is the original data product by Nature. It is foundational. It serves 1 to many. So, again, an excellent option for, uh, for your initial data product. Uh, something to keep in mind though is that Master data is very, again, foundational to the company. So if you do not have a master data management, operating model to understand, uh, what those rules would be match, merge survivorship. Uh, really mastering the data? This could be confusing to your customer. Uh, so again, pros and cons more and more. I'm actually seeing these.
[00:16:30] Insights based data products, insights based. Um, really might be some kind of maybe data model, analytical model or more and more AI models. Uh, they could be things like propensity models, maybe customer personas, uh, where I typically see these come out of our specific like business units or domains uh, that they've built a model and it's a great way again to scale. Insights really originating. Maybe from 1 domain and we apply it to others within the organization. So typically 3 types of data, products of what I'm seeing. Of course, these are definitely maturing and growing as they're moving on. So the types of data products, the next piece of course, is going to be now
[00:17:15] Now, our delivery templates.
[00:17:17] Delivery templates are how you're going to gain Trust on your data products, people will trust what they can see. So we want to be very intentional on what that looks like. The delivery templates of course are going to come in 2, in 2 forms.
[00:17:36] The first being I call it data product, delivery template, the this 1 is, the idea is that we want it to be human consumable like any other packaging on a product. I need to be able to pick that up and understand what exactly is in this product. Who could, I contact if I have a question about this product, the idea is again
[00:18:00] For we're giving folks or who our customers are a human consumable view of that data product.
[00:18:07] However, that's only a wish if we cannot implement it on the, on the pipeline. So, here is where data contracts become very critical. Uh, these are written in open formats, yaml Json, uh, files to where again, you can convert all of those human consumable into machine readable templates. Uh, the idea is we want to take it from both sides again. So that we have the the promise of what's in our data product is actually true because it's in the pipeline. So looking at it from both sides,
[00:18:41] uh, the next piece is going to be now the delivery
[00:18:45] Methods. Uh, the delivery methods are, how you're going to get your data product into the hands of the consumer. And I typically, see, 3 forms of these delivery methods. Uh, the first being an API delivery. Now, when I first started my research on data products, uh, you know I immediately was talking with, you know, software developers and Engineers. Uh, and they said, well, we have kind of this concept in API and so can't all API or data products to be delivered via API. I said, well, you know, if you've been in the data space, uh, unfortunately the the software development and API management is very, it's pretty mature. It's very well established. We have accepted print.
[00:19:30] Principles best practices when it comes to data, we're not necessarily as as mature as that. Uh, so what I say is, you know, don't force the delivery method methods into like just 1, uh, we need to meet the consumer where they're at, so I do see things like etls eltz for that mass movement of data, uh, really again to make sure that we're not forcing folks. We're again, we're meeting folks where they're at so apis for maybe a more, um, uh, mature, more technical Del or consumer. It might be a data scientist. It might be an application developer. Uh, typically etls for maybe your your business insights teams but more and more I'm seeing even
[00:20:15] A direct download. Uh, this could be again for your regulatory or compliance where they need a point in time snapshot of what that data looks like. So typically I see these 3 delivery methods, um I'm actually also seeing uh growing a genetic delivery methods as well that we're using agents uh to also deliver that usually in some kind of integrated workflow. Uh but that's growing more and more. I need to do more study to to add it to the slide but typically those 3 but just know I am hearing more around, agentic delivery.
[00:20:51] So delivery methods.
[00:20:53] The delivery channels now think of the delivery channels as the front door.
[00:21:00] That your or your your consumer is going to go in to get your data product.
[00:21:06] So, when we talk about the delivery, uh, channels, what I see is here, I'll put these up is that, uh, there is a distinction between exchanges and Marketplace.
[00:21:19] So and it is different of course, with internal versus external. So typically what I see, the exchanges by definition, the focus is on sharing data at scale, we don't expect to to receive money or receive anything for that. Uh Again The Exchange the focus is sharing by definition Marketplace is
[00:21:45] For monetization Revenue generating, uh, maybe some kind of cost center, but you expect something in return. Um, so what I typically see is organizations again, just using they're using a Marketplace, but the intent is that I just want to share my data to the users at scale. I don't expect them to pay for the product. Um, I see more and more actually discussions around. Hey, uh, as we scale, the data product practice. Uh, we actually want to look at maybe some kind of chargebacks show backs for that. Uh, when we're looking at an internal environment right now, I from what I'm hearing, it's more just again sharing at scale, uh, going
[00:22:30] Going externally. Of course we have usually in the public sector where we're trying again to share at scale and then I don't hear Too Many organizations truly trying to monetize external data mostly because of, you know, Regulatory Compliance regulations around that. Uh so right now what I typically see is internal sharing at scale.
[00:22:55] So I say the the words of sh exchanges and marketplaces but if you look at the vendors and look at the technology and just in everyday life, your the terminology of marketplace is what everyone uses and so the idea is not necessarily to get caught up in.
[00:23:15] Is exchange or the marketplace. The idea is really to be focused on what the intent is. Let me go. Back the intent of your data product is the intent just to share and then maybe in the future again, do some kind of, um, uh, show backs chargebacks, but be very intentional on what the purpose of your product is going to be
[00:23:39] So finally, our last section really is around the performance of your data product. It is 1 thing again just to build it and then send it and share it. But really, we need to make sure the product is is performing.
[00:23:54] so, if we look at this, your data product has 2 jobs to work and to
[00:24:00] Be used. And so for that reason, we have to look at this from 2 different angles. We have to look at it for more. A technical angle to understand from an engineering point, is this data product, is it working or the pipelines working? And then of course from a product perspective uh like any other product manager, are we using it? Are we getting the adoption? Uh really again, kind of applying those best practices now to the data.
[00:24:29] So looking at the data products in those overall performance that's really where all of this comes to life. So when we're pulling all of this together, this is the environment that again that your data product is going to live
[00:24:45] But the value really comes in how all of those things are integrated together. This is the value of your data product. And what I always find so interesting is that data products are not, you know, just a, a 1 size fits, all everybody is going to have, you know, different environments that they need to live in uh, different, you know, operating models that this works in. And so I love hearing and learning back how organizations are using this within how they're adopting their data products, because there are, you know, things as they're learning and growing and doing this. But from a technical perspective, this is how all of this should be fitting together.
[00:25:31] So, okay, deep breath. That was a lot. So really the idea is we're not going to go back and build that entire architecture. Uh, and really what this is is I wanted to treat it really as a road map on. And this is your first turn in the road that start honestly, with 1 meaning full demand, not the, the most complex AI use case. Um, not. Yeah, it's something that is going to fail, right? At the beginning. We don't have to have it. Perfect start where people already want or need a product.
[00:26:06] Uh, make Empower again, 1 clear decision maker. Uh, really again, if we have that accountability from the start, this makes it
[00:26:15] So much easier. Uh, again, of course, uh, standardized with a product templates people, understand and they trust what they can see.
[00:26:24] And then of course, Run 1 tight iteration Loop. Uh again as we launched that product, my key recommendation is instrument all of those things. And once you can do that, you can do it again and again and again. And that is really where this road map starts.
[00:26:43] So if you only remember 1 slide from today or actually 2 slides from today, the architecture and this 1, uh, this is really your road map on how to do this in the the first Monday morning, first, 30 days, 90 days. And how to get this off the ground,
[00:27:00] Uh, really again, starting with 1 product being very intentional on, who is the data product manager. Uh, even if it's in the interim, we want to get this off the ground. Again, instrumenting, everything and being intentional on what products we are going to be starting with. Again, as this starts to grow and evolve. Uh building in contracts building out your templates uh making sure even the the delivery of this if we have exchanges or marketplaces uh this has so much potential to be. So transformative within the organization, we don't have to have everything ready on the first day, but this gives you again a nice launching off point.
[00:27:43] so, the key
[00:27:45] Recommendations as we close this out. Really, the first idea is we want to lead with product thinking. Again, projects are creating a lot of rework, we want to again be iterative in how we're approaching this with with the data delivery. Uh, because customer Centric, understanding who you're building this data product, for what problems do they have? Are we getting their feedback and being iterative about this?
[00:28:12] Uh, embed the governance, uh, making sure I found that this is such an amazing way to open up, those conversations, people understand with products, how they can and cannot use them. Uh, you apply those same principles to your your data product.
[00:28:30] And again I found that this is a, a great way and a great conduit to a lot of very difficult data data, governance conversations and then finally designed for scale. You know again we we need some what we had at the beginning, does not work when we keep creating projects and not products. So really something. Again, we want to be very intentional about
[00:28:54] So further research. I've spent my time here at Gartner writing and researching on best practices related to this. Um, I have research here if you want to go further into this, uh, we keep developing more. I keep hearing even more from this conference more research. I want to write on data products and with that, I want to say thank you.
[00:29:15] So much. I really have spent so much of time and effort into learning and developing best practices around data products. And I say that because I have seen them solve real problems for real people. Things are becoming more and more complex with, uh, analytics with AI with Gen AI, all of those things. And 1 thing I wanted to leave you all with in your uh, the conference navigator app. Uh we cannot do any of this without the Technologies to help with that. So what I wanted to do was in the navigator app in the slides, uh, I also put in um the sample Technologies by each of the sections
[00:30:00] Uh, they include any open source that I'm aware of any vendors that you know, support each of those different capabilities. Again, it is my gift to you. And with that I want to say thank you all so much. I really cannot wait to hear and see what you all build. Thank you all so much.