[00:00:04] Good afternoon, everybody. Welcome day 2 of the data and analytics Summit.
[00:00:12] So happy to see most of you having taken time out of their busy schedule today, because I know there are like multiple options to choose from to actually, uh, attend, uh, this presentation today, very happy, um, to take this topic, uh, because it's a topic that is very near and dear to my heart. Uh, the reason why I think it's so important is when we talk about data and analytics and increasingly AI, we know
[00:00:45] that lots of data and analytics leaders are
[00:00:49] Often getting questions at least about Ai and in some cases even become responsible, uh, for AI in their organization, they always.
[00:01:01] Come up with all kinds of different questions. For example. Do I need them to put them together? Do I need to keep them? Separate what roles and skills can I share and so on. And I often find that the success of data analytics and AI often comes from the people part. So more than happy to talk to you today about that people part and how to architect an organization structure that follows your maturity. I think if there's 1 Thing, uh, that you want to take away,
[00:01:30] Away from the session today.
[00:01:32] Is that you don't want to skip ahead too quickly in organizing uh your structure, your organizational structure? But really follow, let's say the maturity of AI in your organization because that's sort of big dates. Uh let's say the way you should organize yourself.
[00:01:53] In the same way you could, for example, argue that, if you want to build a a skyscraper right in the middle of the city.
[00:02:04] Is it it's not something I can do, probably something about, I don't know if it's just somebody in the back of the room who can do that for me.
[00:02:11] uh, but it's unfortunately out of my
[00:02:15] My hands apologies for that. Yeah. So if you're building a a skyscraper in the in the middle of the city um it's good to start with the foundation, let's say, right? And then build the Tower and it's that same kind of thinking that I want you to think about as well, right? Laying the foundation, and then get to getting to success on data. And an initiative analytics for AI, let's say.
[00:02:44] Uh, this is, uh, coming of a survey that we do every year. Uh, this is the chief data and analytics officer survey, which is the title of the role, let's say, but we asked a lot of questions, not just about the role, right, but about the data analytics function.
[00:03:00] As well. Uh but in this case it is really about asking the data leader. What responsibility do you have when it comes to Ai and as I said in my short introduction we see more and more data leaders also becoming responsible for some of the AI, right? So for example, 70% said that, they also lead it from a statistic 60%, from a delivery perspective and 60% from a governance perspective. So that means that whether they lead AI or own AI. That is always a little bit upward debate in in all kinds of organizations. But what is a certainty is that they are involved in AI
[00:03:45] For sure. So it becomes more and more important for them as well.
[00:03:50] And that comes on top of.
[00:03:53] A lot of work that they already have to do right. Again, if we ask data leaders, what is your responsibility, really your primary responsibility, then it's already a lot and that jumps up every year and year.
[00:04:08] Up to a point where you could even argue that, it's almost becoming dangerous. Let's say, uh, to be that data and AI leader because there's no longer juggling balls, right? It's juggling chainsaws almost. I hope nobody recognizes this, but I'm sure some of you do.
[00:04:27] Uh, so that is a that is a huge.
[00:04:30] Challenge, right? And that also means that when it comes to
[00:04:35] You know, the challenges that they face in order to be successful. Um,
[00:04:40] this is, you know, a long list of them. And what I've done here, as I I've tried to combine, let's say the top 2 which is then I see it as a major roadblock or I see it as a critical threat, right? And if you then look at the top 3 which are all 45% other ones that are in the orange boxes. So you see that it is really about the challenge that I have when it comes to funding,
[00:05:08] uh, the challenge that I have to get the right people and the challenge that I have in educating, the rest of
[00:05:15] The organization about the importance of data analytics and AI even getting them to understand what it is and how they can use. It is already a huge challenge, right? Let alone deliver it and so on and so forth. So that is really what is blocking them from being super successful in their, uh, their organization. Which I, which is, of course, what they want to be. So, like I said, what I start often with is building a more Foundation, right? Creating the AI Readiness, if you will, uh, for the organization. So, that's interesting. So, first of all, what is even AI Readiness, right? Because, AI Readiness can go into so many.
[00:06:00] Different areas right? Is making your data AI. Ready? Is making your people AI ready? It's making. Well, you know everything AI ready. So it's almost like a container and you just throw everything into you know the concept of of AI readiness.
[00:06:17] So what we did, we did an analysis and we first of all identified, let's say which were the main categories that really helps you uh establish AI Readiness for your organization. And those are these, there's a bigger list uh, it lists up to 32 characteristics, even
[00:06:36] Uh, but this is really the top 5 categories, so getting the funding right uh getting the governance right. Making sure.
[00:06:45] Sure, that everybody gets a line, let's say on the on these initiatives building the foundations both from an AI perspective as well as from a data perspective. So if you focus on those 5 things to start out with.
[00:07:00] Let's say that will lay a good foundation, let's say for success of data and AI or AI Readiness in this case, uh, for your organization.
[00:07:12] then the big question is, of course,
[00:07:15] How do I balance the, uh, effort that I, uh, do as an organization across those 5 pillars? Because I can throw all my people at governance, for example, but if I do, then I sort of lose out.
[00:07:30] Out on the business alignment, for example. So I need to spread my resources across, right? Uh, so we did a further analysis and to show which ones have the biggest impact. So therefore, which are the ones that you probably need to.
[00:07:47] Prioritize. And I put them in the right order to make it like, super simple, uh, for you. Uh, right. So yes, you need money. Uh, right. Yes, you need to align with the business but in the end, the biggest bank for your buck is when you are able to focus on the foundations including the governance,
[00:08:06] And that.
[00:08:07] is like super difficult for many organizations because when it comes to data and Ai and you,
[00:08:15] Really want to build stronger foundations. What is it that you need to do? You need to bring it closer, right? You need to basically centralized the work, right? Because we all know that if you want to control, let's say data, if you want to control the governance over the data, if you want to control the the architecture and so on, you need to keep it closer in order to build that control. So it's sort of forces you almost to centralize the work.
[00:08:46] Which is great for consistency. Uh but the downside of course is that it sort of prevents more freedom agility for the rest of the organization and they still might go on.
[00:09:00] 1 and do their own initiative. So, it's always this.
[00:09:04] Back and forth, I would say between centralization and decentralization. Do I bring more consistency to the work and then Federate out again? Or do I collaborate with the more decentralized parts of my organization and pull back a little bit from this? And it's always this going back and forth. Uh so again we thought okay uh I get that, that's super interesting and we really need to spend some some time there as well. So we did an analysis again.
[00:09:35] And interestingly enough, we found out that in order to be mostly successful with your data and AI initiatives.
[00:09:45] It's mostly about centralization.
[00:09:49] and that to be honest, that surprised us a little bit, not
[00:09:53] To a lot but still a little bit because like I said it for the forces you towards centralization, right for most organizations data and AI or data for AI or AI Readiness is relatively new for most organizations. This journey may be started like 3 and a half years ago, when Gen AI sort of mainstreamed like, and many organizations are still building capabilities in order to support the rest of the organization and low maturity in building capabilities, sort of forces you to centralize. And
[00:10:30] Control things a bit more. So in that sense I was not super surprised by the outcome that centralization uh, is is there. But
[00:10:40] It doesn't mean that you need to fully centralized. So let me just Nuance that a little bit, right? Because if you do fully centralized everything, you might leave uh lose contact with the rest of the organization. Uh so please do it with them rather than to them. So involve them in that centralized effort right by bringing them into the center and collaborating with them and building those capabilities, you can gradually start
[00:11:12] moving out again and federating.
[00:11:15] Out again. So it's centralization before decentralization. Let's say
[00:11:21] and this is also why it is so important to think about not just from a governance perspective or an architecture perspective but also from a people perspective, right? How to make sure that you collaborate with the rest of the organization.
[00:11:38] And 1 thing to help you on that journey is to really think about what strategy do I need to play to take in place. Right, so more. Why are we doing things? And then move into the operating model, which is more about, how are we doing things? And if you're able to align
[00:12:00] Saying that strategy.
[00:12:02] For AI and for data, with the strategy of your business. So with the Federated part with the decentralized business,
[00:12:12] You're ensuring that although your centralizing the effort, you're still aligned to what they are hoping to achieve and include them in your initiative, which means that you need to engage a lot with business, stakeholders in your organization to ensure that and you can see how the strategy and the operating model are connected.
[00:12:35] But they also influence of course the portfolio activities that you need to do. So they are all connected but really make sure that your strategy
[00:12:45] Follows let's say the overall strategy of the organization, the business strategy and then it trickles down into your operating model. The, how do we do this?
[00:12:55] And then when you're talking about, how do we do this? The operating model, there's lots of different things, right? There's the architecture, there's the governance and so on, there's the data but there's also the orc part and that is the bit that we will focus on for the rest of the organiz uh presentation. So how do we drill down into the? You know who actually does the work?
[00:13:19] The orc part is part of the operating uh, model part and this is really about how do I structure the data organization to support?
[00:13:30] AI or do I, maybe even integrate data and II together into 1 organizations that often come up in this type of, uh, conversations.
[00:13:43] This slide is actually the the 1 slide that like I said, right? If you need to remember, 1 thing, it's that maturity dictates or model and this slide sort of shows that
[00:13:57] And my advice is not to skip ahead, too. Soon in this.
[00:14:04] Maturity curve. Let's say so it starts on the left right in the planning phase where AI is maybe new to the organization and you
[00:14:15] Starting to think about. Hey, what is AI? What does it mean for us? Is that relevant for us etc? Etc. Maybe we can think about uh, some of the relevant use cases for our organization and so on. And the best way basically to do that is to buy organizing it in what we call a special interest group, right? Uh, just getting together and uh, and discussing these things. Uh, uh, uh together. So, this is really in the, in the planning phase where you sort of get inspired. I think most organizations are probably past that phase, uh, in my experience, most organizations that I talked to are either in Phase 2 or, uh, early 3.
[00:15:00] But that's the average, right? I know there are outliers some are maybe in different places, but the average across the market let's say, is that they are somewhere between the 2 and the 3. What happens in 2 is that they actually get started on the work. Right? So they get going. So the inspiration is brought to, you know, real use cases and these real use cases turn into proof of Concepts and you actually start to prototype some of those use cases, which is great in many ways because it gives you the opportunity to better understand
[00:15:36] Where is the data? Can we even access the data who owns the data? What's the quality of the data? Did we actually pick the right? Use case.
[00:15:45] Do we have the right people on our team? Uh, where are the right skills? Uh, do we use the right tools? Are we using the right technology and so on, right? So all those elements that go into that Foundation, right? Whether it's the AI Foundation, the data Foundation, the governance foundation and so on you sort of start to discover in this phase and this is also why it's so important to go face by face because if you jump ahead too quickly, you might end up with the wrong data or the wrong use case or the wrong tool or the wrong skills or etc. Etc. So in this phase, it's a super important phase you sort of start to understand where you need to move and how
[00:16:29] uh,
[00:16:30] And this is also something that you really need to do together with the rest of the organization. Like I said, do it with them rather than to them is really important, especially I would say in in this phase and then once you've done this, you sort of understand, okay? This is the way we do it. These are the people that we need. These are the tools that we need. These are the skills that we need. So you can start formalizing that much more into a real way of working and you can put, you know, boxes around it. You can put people in it you can formalize that in architectures and so on which basically gives you the blueprint to build your data and analytics uh of data and AI Central of Excellence, right? Which
[00:17:15] Sits in the in the middle.
[00:17:17] And then, uh, you start delivering, uh, on uh, on the demand that exists within your organization. And as you then mature again, you can finally start federating out again, right? And maybe sharing it with more people across the organization, uh move maybe into a more hybrid organizational model. Uh like for example a hub and spoke model which is a quite common uh model uh where the Hub, the central team really builds. Let's say the foundational work for everyone but execution is them being pushed more into the spokes into the various parts of the organization and enabling them to do the work themselves.
[00:18:00] Else. But at least in a consistent way.
[00:18:03] And this is where, for example, many organizations are with data and analytics. So where AI is often more around Phase 2 to 3 when it comes to data and analytics, they are often more somewhere in Phase 4,
[00:18:19] Which also gives you the reason why it's so difficult sometimes for organizations to merge the 2, right? Because they are at a different levels of maturity and therefore, it's more, it's more difficult to merge them into 1 data and AI uh Coe uh some organizations always
[00:18:39] Try to bring them together while other organizations.
[00:18:42] Uh, separate them, uh, it depends.
[00:18:45] A little bit. Uh, I know.
[00:18:47] Uh, from our research that organizations that have uh Focus for example.
[00:18:53] On data and data is like super important for them because they need to make it sure that it is really controlled and consistent for example in healthcare or financial services right where you have lots of regulatory and compliance, they tend to keep keep the data Coe separate from the AI. See. But in other organizations where that is any less necessary, they often bring data and AI together into 1 Coe. So the choice is yours to separate them or integrate them. Uh, let's say,
[00:19:30] Uh, but there is there is some guidance there.
[00:19:34] Um, and that, you know, that is something to keep in mind. And when you're still at that level of, you know, bringing in pizzas and And discussing, uh, what use cases could be potentially relevant for my organization. That's not, you know, the phase where it's already necessary to make that decision, right? This is much more about inspiration collaboration and uh, very informal, hopefully, even and you just bring people together and you know, basically have a bit of fun, maybe right. But in that second phase like I said that super important phase where you really need to start working together in order to build.
[00:20:15] The capabilities, the best practice is actually to bring people together into what we call a lab, uh, but you can give it a different name, right? You can call it, I don't know the AI team or the startup or, you know, whatever works for you and your organization. But the thinking here is you take people from different parts of the organization. So cross functions business. It across disciplines data, it etc, etc. And you bring them into this team.
[00:20:45] Where you bring in the capabilities to prototype, those use cases. And, like I said, this is where you start to develop, uh, the insights on how to
[00:20:57] in time, maybe move into this.
[00:21:00] Coe uh let's say so do not skip this phase. Let's say that is 1 of the most important. Uh takeaways I think from today,
[00:21:10] Um, and, and as you can see, right, this is just an example. I, I'm not saying that it needs to be exactly the copy of this, but just keeping in mind that is cross functions business it, and cross disciplines right data Ai and so on, uh, you can think about different ways of bringing that together, you can think about different roles of bringing that together, but the emphasis is really on making sure that you bring in enough people to address this from all kinds of different, uh, perspectives. And then, once you've built that
[00:21:45] Lap and fusion teams. And you've done a couple of prototypes and so 1, you might feel comfortable enough.
[00:21:51] To move into a more steady state, the stabilization phase and that's is when you might end up with for example an Center of Excellence, right? And as you can see in the center of excellence uh there are different parts of the organization involved on the right. For example where it says be you and 1 and B you too. This is the business units, right? So they are
[00:22:19] Included in the centralized.
[00:22:22] Uh, uh, Coe.
[00:22:25] Uh, so with them, uh, but they're all part of that bigger, bigger team.
[00:22:30] Including the data engineering, the data governance, uh, and so on. And in this stabilization phase, this is really where you make sure that you build the strongest foundation and capabilities for your organization in order to deliver on what is required for the organization.
[00:22:49] But you also see.
[00:22:51] Is that I put 2 colors on uh the business unit. So 1 is green and 1 is yellow. Uh, you can even think about uh, more colors, for example, read what they reflect is their level of maturity, which means that if you have a team that is relatively mature or a major stakeholder in your organization where
[00:23:15] When it comes to AI, you can give them a little bit more priority. You can give them more resources, you can give them maybe even a little bit more autonomy to operate on their own. You give them different service levels, if it were and that is what is depicted with that. Call at a level of autonomy, how much Freedom do you want to give them?
[00:23:37] And that means that you can differentiate uh, between them.
[00:23:42] I mentioned already that lots of organizations work with a hub and spoke model, right? This is still the Hub with the spokes included, let's say in the center, but as you can imagine As you move through that maturity, you can start going into a more hybrid.
[00:24:00] Model. And this is where you can then say. Okay, 1 business unit is like very mature so they can sort of stand on their own. Now they can handle data and AI on their own following the best practices, the standards, the skills, the foundations, all that stuff that was developed by The Hub, but now they are able to do it on their own.
[00:24:25] While another team is still maybe in that in between phase, where they are starting to develop their own, uh, capabilities. But still need a lot of handholding, right? So it's a sort of a different between a thick spoke and a thin spoke if you will.
[00:24:42] And then there might still be a team where you say, okay? I'm
[00:24:45] Sorry, uh but uh I you don't have the money or you don't have the maturity or whatever reason there is. So for now we will do the work for you. Uh, so that's the red 1. So differentiating between spokes in a hub and spoke model is something that is quite common. Let's say when you move into more, that more Federated state so you don't have to treat all spokes in the same way. Um,
[00:25:11] But what you do need to do is collaborate with them always, right? So that setup that you had during the lab phase where you build cross functional and multi-disciplinary teams that doesn't go away even in the steady state you still need to collaborate with them but in various
[00:25:30] degrees of autonomy, let's say
[00:25:33] And then in some cases which happens not in a lot of organizations yet uh uh AI becomes so normal for the organization that everybody understands everybody can do it everybody's enabled. Let's say. So the only thing you might need is a very small team to basically orchestrate all efforts and that's it. Uh but I don't think many organizations are there yet.
[00:26:00] um,
[00:26:01] 1 of the questions that often end up, uh, with is then who do I need in order to build that Coe? What roles do we need? Well, as I said, you sort of discovered that in the lab phase, hopefully, right. You find out
[00:26:15] Do we have the right roles? Do we have the right skills? Do we have the right people, Etc.
[00:26:20] This is some guidance that you can get uh, um, below the line are the emerging roles. So, those are roles that may become a role uh, or or maybe become a skill that is embedded into a role. For example, and above the line, you will see roles that you will find mostly across, uh, uh, cos, uh, for example, a data engineer, right? Getting the data in a machine learning engineer, uh, a data scientist and so on, do you need all those roles? Maybe not, uh, the ones with the orange dots are, at least the ones that I would recommend to explore especially when you're starting out. So, the must have roles. Let's say,
[00:27:00] It's also fair to recognize that you can combine multiple roles into a single person. Write Your Role doesn't mean FTE. You can have a 100 data Engineers right? Or you can combine 1 person that is both the data engineer and the data scientists but it's good to think about those roles and skills as you build. But hopefully, you know, they emerge during that prototyping phase.
[00:27:23] And then what is super interesting?
[00:27:26] Is that?
[00:27:29] The roles these days are changing. So what we're really seeing is that lots of work is, for example, shifting from uh developers. Let's say to more end users, right? Democratization.
[00:27:45] Or whatever you want to want to call it. Uh, but we're also seeing, for example, lots of Automation. And for example, already agents taken over some of the tasks that may be long to, for example, a data engineer. So, some of the tasks are being done by by agents already. So that means that some of these roles are shifting, right? So, some of the work that you used to do, is done by someone else or something else. Let's say, which means that they need to redefine the value for their organization and their teams. So, what we're really seeing is organizations shifting from a very role-based model to a more skill-based model so it's not so,
[00:28:30] Much your role, but it's the skills that you have. And then, based on those skills, we pick, you know, the right person with the right agents, and then we build this tiny team that then starts delivering on the tasks required. So, that means is, depending on the phase where you are, of course, right in your organizational model.
[00:28:51] But already start thinking about the fact that yes, you need roles. So yes, you need people, but at the same time, already start thinking about. What does that mean? At a task level, or even as a skill level? As I progress, the work for my organization because it will change in time.
[00:29:10] So that means, right, first of all, very much, think about where you are.
[00:29:15] Maturity-wise first on that 5-point scale. Let's say make sure that you set up a strategy for data and AI. That is very much aligned with the strategy of your stakeholders then decide how to organize and operate, uh, depending on your maturity. Then build those capabilities and iterative, and, and incremental way. And make sure that in the end you are conscious of the fact that we are shifting to maybe not to role based team, but to skill based team. And hopefully, if you do that, right and you've laid the right foundation for your organization, right, the skyscraper will emerge and you will be successful, hopefully with your initiatives in your organ.
[00:30:00] Organization. And if you want to read more, there's lots of research on gardener.com. If you have access and otherwise, I'll be here for a few more minutes to answer a few questions as well with that. Thank you so much.