[00:00:05] Hello, so I want to talk to you today about. What is your, why what is your reason for meaning? What, what do you find meaning from in your life? Now it varies from different people. Some people find it from relationships and connection from family and friends and things like this, some people find it from their work from career. Some people find it from spirituality or personal growth, or creativity and expression. I think we all have something that kind of, that really gets us up in the morning that really gives us, uh, that really excites us. And, of course, we also have a professional why, as well. We have our personal, why, and professional? Why, why did we get into Data?
[00:00:45] What are we doing here? I know that I got into Data because well, I started I did a maths degree and then I moved into um, doing uh, me reporting. It was called back then for an insurance company and I loved very quickly that sense of we can almost predict the future. We can see what's going to happen from what's happened in the past and I love that sense of changing things. Have really making change in the world of really, predicting helping people guiding people on their way forward and making real change. I didn't necessarily get into it just for the love of dashboards and maybe some of you did, maybe you did get into it for the love of dashboards. Well,
[00:01:21] Our organizations have a purpose as well. We have a purpose and our organizations have a have a purpose and it varies of course, from organization to organization,
[00:01:30] If it's the private sector. Typically it's things like revenue and reputation, right? Things like this cost control things like this public sector little bit more complex, it's not necessarily money. It's more things like trust and legitimacy and delivery quality and citizen outcomes.
[00:01:47] Third sector of the charity sector. Of course, that's different things again, service and things like this and in D data and analytics and AI are usually described as critical to that purpose but and we want to weave data and analytics and AI into this organizational purpose. It's interesting when I do document reviews for clients, which I do often I'll review strategies and things like this or any sort of inquiry. The first thing I tend to do is I'll go on your website and I'll have a look, what do you actually do as an organization?
[00:02:15] And it sometimes surprisingly hard to figure out. Honestly, some organizations are like, oh, we saved the world and you think, okay, that's great, but how? And then I have to go and ask ask Wikipedia or something like that. Um, but really, you know, what's the organizational purpose? We should be as data leaders. We have to be very, very clear on what a purpose of our organization is so we can weave data and analytics and AI into this. Now a while ago, I was working with a client, um, a a client. I've been working with for a long time and she'd had what you might describe. As a career-defining year, she delivered a, a platform she'd rolled out AI use cases. She was doing a whole culture program that was Landing really. Well, she was really starting to get traction uh, across the organization and she was in with her executive and they said, okay but what's all this changed? What's make what's different in the organization, how is this organization?
[00:03:00] More successful.
[00:03:01] And she kind of went oh well, you know she did. What many of us might have done, she talked about milestones and she talked about adoption and things like this. And um and they and belief quietly drained away the eyes started to glaze a little bit, they started to kind of oh yeah that sounds great. You know lots of people did some data literacy training some AI literacy oh yeah okay cool, cool cool because what Executives really want to know is how does this connect to why we exist, right? How does this what has changed in the organization? How is this organization more successful? Because of the work you've been doing and as data leaders? We know that value is there, but it's still often very hard to make it land and this is the quiet failure, mode of data, right? This is of data analytics.
[00:03:45] And AI, not a fail to fail to deliver, or a failure to innovate, or a failure to work, but a failure to connect to meaning and outcomes in a way that leaders and our whole organization will really resonate with and connect with and as data leaders and even Junior, do you know, data um, colleagues we need to be able to have this conversation to connect to real meaning for our organization. Why is this so important? Well, 80% of leaders are saying according to our surveys that the need for Value tracking has increased, but less than 10% of organizations are currently measuring and tracking business value. 83% of CFOs are reporting. That more than less than half of AI, initiatives are delivered, measurable Financial results. Only 53% of cios
[00:04:30] The reporting meeting, see expect expectations on AI Roi and 10% or less of cios and Tech leaders, believe that CEOs and C Suite rate AI initiatives as excellent. So, there's a, there's a gap. We're doing so much work. We're so busy, there's a gap. It's not delivering real value and meaningful outcomes.
[00:04:49] We're predicting by 20 uh by 2027 75% cdao are going to become um concern um dragged back into it. If we don't position ourselves as an indispensable strategic collaboration in our organization success overall but our AI success as well. We'll start to see cdao losing their seu position. So okay what can we do about this to achieve value? We need to afford identify the forms of value that they that
[00:05:15] Your organization identifies with and it tends to break down in 3 Keys. Number 1 is agreements. What is value to us? What is value to our organization? Number 2 is then measurement and connecting to that directly in a way that's really compelling, and really powerful. And third is the value story. Oops, I've clicked. So ahead a little bit, we'll go back. There we go. Third is the value Story. How we connect this, how we get people to believe it and not just believe it. But to, to be excited by it and this is the journey we're going to talk about today.
[00:05:45] So number 1 value like beauty is in the eye of the beholder. So the first thing we need to do is understand what value actually is to our organization as I say. Private sector is typically a bit easier. It generally boils down to things like Revenue.
[00:06:00] Stakeholder. Um, opinion stakeholder attitudes and uh cost control things like this reputation. Um, public sector is something different again. So the first thing to do is to ask and keep asking until you can clearly articulate, the answer, what does our organization do? Some of you may be like, that is such an easy question. Again, public sector it's typically a bit harder and things like this. What does our organization do go over the other way going into your website? What are you telling the world? What numbers are you promoting to the world? Really become familiar with your organizational strategy? Even if it doesn't really exist. Really? What are what are you telling the world that you exist to do really? We we need to become experts in these things. And this should then we'll start to really understand how we can use the tools we have at our disposal into these things.
[00:06:45] And then next, we need to go and speak to our key stakeholders. First, we have to understand who our stakeholders are, and we want to be mapping those out, and then we want to, we want to ask them, ask them what they care about, people love talking about themselves and they love talking about their work, right? So if you go to your key stakeholders and ask them big open questions, especially if you're new. This is always a good 1. If you're new into the organization, what do you care about? What are you on the hook for? What are your goals? What are your objectives? What are your pain points? How do you drive value for this organization? And you might start to hear things like this, for example, so the CEO CEO might want to grow growth. Might be interested in growth double digit growth perhaps. We hear that quite a lot. Uh, you'll see Chief HR officer, she might, he, she might want to reduce employee churn employee.
[00:07:30] Attention uh your CFO is going to want to maintain margin. Uh, your VP of customer success wants to improve customer retention, etc. Etc. This is the language that our executive speak but the problem is is we speak this language.
[00:07:44] We talk about these things.
[00:07:46] We talk about things like machine learning and data Fabric and master data management and data quality and things like that. So that's, I mean, and in this environment, we're at a data conference, for goodness sake, we love this stuff. We're really excited by this stuff. Our executives are not anyone else outside of the data bubble, which I like to call it. It does not. They don't care about this stuff. And so what happens is we end up in this position where we're talking that language, what's this on the left? We we speak this language on the left, we're talking about as I say, MDM data quality, things like this and we're really excited about it.
[00:08:15] But our organization, our executive are speaking this language over here. So they're talking about as I say, growth margin Revenue reputation. Um, so then, what we tend to do is, okay, how do we connect these 2 things? How do we get people to, to speak each other's language? So then what we tend to do is we go. Alright, we'll educate them if we educate them in our language. What they'll do, they'll sudden they'll be interested then, right? They'll come, they'll take an interest. They'll be really excited in the same way that we are. They won't. Oops, touch my microphone, they will not
[00:08:40] They've got a full-time jobs, they're really, really busy. Uh, they've got lots to do. They don't want to become data professionals or they'd be data professionals. They'd be doing the job if they wanted to and they don't they care about this stuff. So, actually, what we need to do instead is meet them where they are is go and connect everything. We're doing to them to their to what they're doing and it's interesting. There's a piece if anybody's read.
[00:09:00] Um, Thinking Fast and Slow by Daniel Kahneman. If you do and fast thinking is anything, you automate? If you anything you do on a regular basis, for example, commute to work becomes fast thinking your brain, automates it. Um and that's why you often don't remember your commute to work because your brain's automated it, we as data professionals, have worked in data for 25 years. As data professionals, we've automated data. Thinking many of our stakeholders have not, they are so for them, it's slow thinking, slow thinking is hard stuff. If I said to you, what is 53 multiplied by 87. Please do that in your head. You would stop doing anything else. You stop listening to me? You'd stop speaking. You'd stop walking, you'd just be thinking on that. That is slow thinking it's hard, we don't like doing it. If we're going to ask people to do slow thinking, we either have to do the cognitive heavy lifting for them or
[00:09:45] Give them a really, really good reason because we don't like to do it.
[00:09:48] So this is this is not this that they're stupider than us or not as smart as us. They just it's for them. It's harder than it is for us to understand these things. So how do we connect it? Just a quick case study. I'm going to refer back to you through this session. Um, this is the United States Naval safety command and they had the cdao was really struggling to get DNA and activities and to Mission critical goals and organization level outcomes. DNA teams were often approving projects on an ad hoc basis. Um, first come first served that kind of approach leading to Quick wins that failed to generate long-term value, bear, that in mind. So the long-term value for them, it wants to save lives by reducing critical incidents, right? That's what value is to them, but that wasn't what they were talking about. They were talking about data and things like this. So
[00:10:30] I'll come back to this throughout this presentation.
[00:10:32] Okay, so we understand what value is we know who our stakeholders are, and we know what they care about, they know what we know what they're on the hook for. That's a really powerful position to be in, right? You understand what, that, what wakes them up at night. What keeps them awake at 2 in the morning? You understand those things? Because we've asked we've had that conversation. Next, we need to map to that. So we need to measure business change enabled by data. Like all of your efforts be directed to something, let it keep that end in view.
[00:10:57] Okay, so now we get into value chain mapping, and this is 1 of the things I love. So much about working in data, is we really get to understand how our organizations work end to-end across the board over time in a way that not many other people do we really get to understand how our organization works and how our organization drives value. So
[00:11:15] This is an example. I'm going to show you of value chain mapping. So we've had the conversation. We know what value is profit reputation cost. This is an example from utilities, that I'm going to walk you through today. Um, this utility provider had a big problem, they were responsible for over, they owned over 300 Win Farms all across Europe, which represented thousands of wind turbines. It's a huge asset for the organization, huge asset. Um, and it was costing a fortune to maintain this asset because they didn't really know what to do. They were sending Engineers out 1 at a time. Check check, check, check. Check millions of Euros every year to, to maintain this asset and it wasn't working either. So this, this method didn't work, but they had to do something. So you've got an executive there with a big problem to solve. I have to maintain this asset. I don't know what to do. What I'm currently doing isn't working. This is a big problem.
[00:12:00] I need to the success metric that I need to to follow is I have to reduce asset maintenance cost. Okay, great, cool. So let's get into that. A little bit, the operational impact of that are reducing unscheduled. Outage reducing unplanned downtime. Okay, the process that we're that is, is being impacted is equipment servicing and so a value driver and this is a hypothesis at this point. If we can predict what assets need maintenance and when then we can Target the assets and we can, the hypothesis is that, we can reduce asset maintenance costs. Okay, so then we go and work with the business. Can we do this? Can we, if we can predict this, would this work for you, is this going to reduce the cost of you doing this? Okay, great. So now we can map this, we can map. So you look at that. You got your value driver right there, predictive asset maintenance, we just
[00:12:45] Talked about that mapping about it. Reduces the asset maintenance cost that's your success metric which reduces cost leads directly to profitability directly to business language. Now what we're doing is we're connecting we're speaking the business's language, so let's build a predictive model. Let's use Predictive Analytics to build a predictive model using weather data and power output data. Given the weather conditions that turbine should be producing this amount of power, it's not that much turbine needs maintenance work with the business, put the wrapper around it, build the product, send the engineer out, get the feedback, Etc. So okay, and then we get that we our executive, we need them to agree that yes, this is driving value for me. Perfect and we can do this over and over again. Say our VP of customer success wants to look at complaints wants to reduce complaints. It's
[00:13:30] Cutting our reputation. It's costing us a fortune to maintain these complaints. Okay. So maybe we want to establish the root cause so perhaps we could use I don't know gen AI or something like that to go through all our complaints information to establish to root cause analysis. Okay, cool. Um, our CFO wants to drive Revenue, obviously, right? Our CEO certainly wants that as well. How do we drive revenue revenue directly back to profitability? So, Revenue growth profitability is bringing in more money, Revenue growth and reducing costs, great spending less of it. Cool. Okay, how do we drive Revenue? We increase sales that actually success metric. How do we increase sales of value driver, to increase sales, highly personal personalized, customer marketing, early opportunity, identification, cool. And we can use customer segmentation to do that. Now we can do that with Predictive Analytics. We could do it.
[00:14:15] G. We can do it with the G. It actually doesn't matter what the tool is the fact is that you can connect it back to business value, no matter what we do and we can build these things over time. We can we become more and more expert in the organization. We have more and more of these organ these these uh conversations. Sorry we start to understand more and more. These value drivers, that lead directly right up to that value driver piece. We're not talking about data at all. We're talking about how our organization Works. We're talking about how everything connects back to Value. This is our, um, our executive, our organizations, concerned that business value, everything over there is what we talk about analytics and AI capabilities. And then on the other side of that, we can even then start talking about governance and quality and master data management and all the things we want to talk about because we've got permission then because we've done.
[00:15:00] This piece in the middle because we've connected ourselves directly back to business value. We then. Okay, tell me more. Do you want me to productionize this for you? Do you want me to productionize this customer segmentation, or do you want me to productionize this Predictive Analytics for you so that you can reduce your asset maintenance cost, I do? As a matter of fact, yeah. Great. Okay. Well to do that, then I need to be able to roll out data governance. I need to be able to do Master data management and you've probably got about 20 minutes there of them listening to you going. Yeah. Okay, cool. You've got credibility, crucially. We now have to deliver on this, of course, we can't just say it. We can't just map it.
[00:15:32] That's the next step and I'm not talking about delivery today necessarily. I'm talking about mapping but still what we've done now is we've made a real clear connection to success for the organization and as I say it could be Predictive Analytics agent.
[00:15:45] AI gen AI, the tool in really doesn't matter. It matters to us. But to the organization what matters is that we're driving success. We're making the organization and we're making our Executives more successful better at their jobs, the hero, right? It's going back to the keynote, on Monday, the hero of the organization. I'm going to make you a hero through the work that we do and this is an ongoing conversation these conversations, take time this sort of credibility takes time. Okay, so we've understood. What value is we've mapped to that value now. What do we do? Well, we cannot stop there. Oh, so this is a process. Um, this is the process to do this step by step. We, uh, the DNA benefits, realization idea to Pilot to roll out. So we build that Value Story. We Define define that value hypothesis. That I talked about a minute ago. We build that action plan, we test
[00:16:30] That value hypothesis. If it's not going to actually deliver the value, we say it is then let it go. Go and do something else, fast fail. Um, and then we track those leading and lagging kpis. These are the success metrics that I mentioned before.
[00:16:42] Some, um, ideation if you, if you want some ideas of of what other people are doing, that might help you come up with ideas to do this. We have a AI, use case insights platform that you might want to go and have a look at I'll drive. I'll go past that very quickly. It's available on g.com. Okay, coming back to our case study. So this is the United States Naval safety command. So the problem was connecting to meaningful outcomes for the organization which was saving lives through reducing incidents. Okay, so the cdao Rhea, reframed DNA objectives and priorities from technical focused to Mission focused to drive fleetwide urgency and expand
[00:17:15] Responsibility for reducing mishaps to align everybody on these common goals and it's inspiring. So, coming back to so part 3, oh sorry the cdao said using a common goal, builds Collective urgency between my DNA teams and our partners in The Fleets. DNA efforts need to be tied to an easily quantifiable goal, to build a shared Direction. That's inspiring, that's exciting. You're driving outcomes and value for the organization. Okay, now crucially, we can't stop there, we've mapped it, that's great. People need to agree. People need to agree that we've driven that value, the CFO, the CEO needs to agree that we have been responsible for driving that value people. Don't buy what you do, they buy why you did it? Okay, it's not an intellect.
[00:18:00] Actual problem. We can't think our way out of this, we need to go back and build trust. Trust is a critical enabler of business value. This is the Gartner data and analytics risk framework. And this combined with the mapping that we've just talked about is a real driver of trust, because proving value is an exercise in Persuasion not a mathematics. Truth does not equal, trust does not equal influence, you can be completely true, you can be completely right? And be the rightist person who ever existed. And if there's someone next to you that is saying the opposite. But the person you're talking to trying to influence likes them more. They're more likely to believe them. That's just a fact. So, influences key, in this, we we've done the work, we know we've we've delivered, we know, we've got the value, we've mapped to it. Now, we need to make sure that our
[00:18:45] Stakeholders agree with that. Okay, so we think this is a maths problem. If we could just prove it we just proved it more. It's not, it's an influencer problem. Okay, so how do we address that? Remember the stakeholders that we spoke about at the beginning, okay? So we know who they are. We know some things about them and we know what they care about perfect. We also know from our conversations, how they feel about us, are they a champion? Are they, a neutral or are they a skeptic? Well, what does that mean? A champion is someone? They're a friendly audience, they already believe, you know, you know, when you're speaking to them, right, you've probably might have done work with them before or they're already a data person. Okay. They're looking for anecdotes and examples and data to share with others a neutral, probably the majority of your audience. This is when we're talking about the cha the the change curve. There are a neutral audience, they're not sure what to believe, excuse me, I'm sorry.
[00:19:30] I'm just going to drink a little bit of water. Do forgive me?
[00:19:34] I've been talking a lot this past few days. Excuse me. They're unsure what to believe they're looking for logic and arguments to ground their choice and Skeptics they're your hostile audience. These are people who have maybe had bad experiences before. Maybe they're scared. Maybe they're just not sure what what to what to believe. Maybe you intimidate them? I don't know. It's very tempting to try and change the Skeptics minds and I have this conversation a lot.
[00:19:59] You may have to, it may be. There are a key stakeholder and there's things that we can do. There's all sorts of great stories. Um I worked with an organization, they created a Brain Trust, so the Brain Trust invited people to come and challenge ideas at the beginning of a process. So they invited people to
[00:20:15] To come and have at it challenge everything. And to really bring up challenge in a really challenging. I keep saying challenging in a really challenging way. But the great thing about that is intimidating as it is, it means you're going to find out about that Challenge 1 way, or another better to find out at the beginning, but that's a separate conversation. So there's things we can do with Skeptics, but it's going to be hard. You're going to spend a long time making this much process progress. So really, as much as possible, we want to engage with our Champions as much as we possibly can. We want to identify these people, we want to elevate their work and work with these people as um, as partners and allies. So, we're working with our Champions crucially. They must agree with us. That value has been delivered. We cannot go and tell people we've delivered all this value for you, be excited. You know how that works?
[00:21:00] They don't they won't, they won't take it, we have to have that conversation up front. We have to be with them as we're delivering it and then we need to go back and have them agree that we did deliver it, right? Um so we prioritize the Champions use cases as much as we possibly can. We collaborate on success metrics together and we equip them with other Champion stories to elevate their success. These people will become our influencers across the organization. Having other people talk about the great work that you've done. Together is so much more powerful than saying it yourself. So having someone who you've done great work, for you've helped them solve a problem, you've made their life easier, you've made them a hero Elevate. Those people as much as you can.
[00:21:38] We can do things like uh, build a build, a champion successes, uh, a simple 1 pager for each success. That will contain
[00:21:45] The problem, the impact that you drove the solution and the team, something nice and compact as data. People we tend to be very into the weeds often. So we want to tell people everything that happened, every part of the process and again, they don't care. They're not data people, they care about what did it do? What did it mean to us? So keep it keep it to the Bare Bones of what did we actually achieve? And how did we do it?
[00:22:07] To keep it compelling. So we build this Value Story Road map. Say, for example, you've already got 3 value stories from your Champions. So we we build these forward where we going to find the rest of them. Well, actually, what we want to do then is use these these Champion stories and use these, um, influencers that we've now built to, to move up the organization to start to influence the neutrals, to start to pull people up this change.
[00:22:30] Curve, this is going to take time.
[00:22:33] Um, it it would might be talking, 18 months and Beyond the these this sort of influence, builds over time. Um, and people sometimes say, oh it doesn't scale, it doesn't scale, but that's just really. Um it's it's it's a way of protecting from the fact that it's hard work, it's work. It's work to do this but it will absolutely pay off. I have gone through this journey with multiple clients. I've been through this journey myself, it takes time, I have a cdao that I work with. Now, I've been working with her for about 4 or 5 years. She has she's been a cdao for 4 years in her organization. She's now got to the point where she's got such influence. She's delivered, she's delivered so much value that she can articulate and how so many influencers in the organization. She applies what she calls a data.
[00:23:15] Tax. So now, when people come to her and say, I want to do x, y, and Zed. She says, fine. I'm having 20% of your value.
[00:23:21] And she and days ago. Okay, yeah, because she's built up that credibility, that doesn't come on day, 1, that takes time and I said to her, why, why 20%? And she said, I don't know that she it's a data tax but it's got she, you can't apply and apply that. Just in day 1, this takes time, build your Champions, deliver build, and build, and build. Bring your neutrals up the change curve and then we can work on our Skeptics as sometimes you have a skeptic in a key influential position separate conversation for another time perhaps. But there are things we can do. But really, as much as possible, it's just a better day at work, work with your Champions and have a good time. In that regard, we're looking for contrast.
[00:24:00] I often hear people say things like, if I can automate all the finances reporting, then that's great. That's value is not its productivity. They'll be, they'll be glad you did it for 2 days and then they'll forget. So really, as much as possible we're looking for real contrast, where we've really made a change for the organization, and we need that qualitative and quantitative, um, impact to build that Value Story. Okay, so this is the overall process understand those Mission critical priorities. Brainstorm and new and manage existing initiatives. Build that Value Story together with your organization, prioritize your initiatives, based on that. But we can have this value conversation up front. It's harder than just saying, tell me what data you want, of course it is. People just saying I want this data. I want that data, but everything else becomes easier. If we can have that value conversation,
[00:24:45] Up front, you can prioritize based on that value conversation, you can get Buy in based on that value conversation and everything else. And people come to you and say, well you know that's not my you just give me the data that I've asked for the problem with that is it puts you in a really disempowered position. If you position yourself as a data service, provider order taker, it puts you in that position of doing a lot of work, disconnected from value. And if your stakeholder delivers value, they'll consider that value their own and if they don't, it'll be your fault. So that's a really disempowered position that we just don't want to be in. We want it to instead, through this process Elevate ourselves to being a powerful value driving partner for our organization. So remember our case study here, the, uh, United States Naval safety command the results of they aligned to organization,
[00:25:30] Value reducing incidents reducing deaths. Um, the results between, uh, 2018 and 2023 on duty fatalities have decreased by 71% and off duty fatalities have decreased by 60 60%.
[00:25:43] That's inspiring, that's motivating. That's inspiring for your data people. That's inspiring for you. It's inspiring aspiring for your organization. Is this sort of impact that we really want to drive for our organizations? So in terms of recommendations, prioritize relationship building from the outset to understand key stakeholders, definition of value, create those value stories articulating, the the quantitative and qualitative benefits focus on Executive and board engagement. Continuously Monitor and sense for changes in stakeholder priorities.
[00:26:15] Things change. Keep it keep a breast of that. This relationship is so important and work with your CFO and other business. Peers to negotiate attribution of initiatives, to specific business outcomes to become powerful value, drivers for your organizations. Thank you very much.