[00:00:04] Good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for joining me. My name is Elam zedi, we be with gardeners data management team. Uh, I've been with Gartner for quite some time and during my time, I've had the, you know, privilege of, uh, working on and leading some of our magic coordinate research which we believe is 1 of our most important pieces of research. We write through the year and uh this year, it's my pleasure to take you through.
[00:00:28] uh, through to some of our, you know, most great magic quadrants and 2 that are really sort of connected and extremely prominent in today's requirements typically for creating and delivering data for AI and not just for AI but other operational use cases and those are the
[00:00:45] Magic quadrant for data integration tools. That's the 1 that I used to uh, lead once upon a time and then the magic quadrant for metadata Management Solutions. And that's basically where you get your metadata accessed and then utilized to inform and augment data management as a discipline. So, uh, I was thinking to myself, why are these 2 together? And you probably might be thinking as well. But uh, they're more connected than you might imagine. Because if you think about it metadata is what allows integration to be performed better, right? If you had more information about the pipeline, the mappings, if you had more understanding about what Transformations were made. If you could reuse those, if you could reuse those mappings to help automate the next pipeline. Well, that's all metadata. So, in, in my opinion, those things don't
[00:01:30] Run in silos anymore. If you're creating an engineering practice metadata as a discipline. And the tools need to be well connected with your data integration pipelines and those tools, and hopefully this will help actually make themselves much better, right? So that's how they are actually connected. But what's the agenda for today? What do you really have for?
[00:01:50] I'm going to be covering the magic quadrant for data integration tools and I have 30 minutes to cover Through to Magic quadrants. So I'll do my best to take you through the market trends. I'll take you through what the market comprises of. I'll hopefully touch a little bit upon which vendors are prominent across which quadrants in the magic quadrant and how you should make an informed decision again, not depending on
[00:02:15] On whether someone's a leader or a niche pair, but based on your use cases and the capabilities that make sense to your use cases. Right. That's very, very important to keep in mind, right? So yeah, we go through the mq for integration. Go through the mq for metadata and then some recommendations to follow, right? Let's get started.
[00:02:33] So straight in.
[00:02:34] Let's talk about the magic quadrant for data integration.
[00:02:37] By the way, the most red magic quadrant in Gartner data analytics in AI more than some of the AI magic coordinates. So that tells you something see data integration is and I'm sure you are aware is a fundamental technology-led discipline.
[00:02:53] If you can't access integrate.
[00:02:57] Transform semantically in.
[00:03:00] Model, and deliver the data.
[00:03:03] You can forget about, whatever AI agent you throw at it. It's not, it's not giving us good insights, right? So, it is just foundational. It is an investment. You just have to make, you have to get this, right? But more importantly, what are the use cases? What are you trying to achieve with an integration tool, right? How do you box these tools into what are they good at? When you try to instead of RFP or you're trying to do an RFI or to do a POC? What are you working towards, right? So you can either use integration tool to create a data engineering platform or a data engineering exercise, right? So that's basically when a data engineer, will use a data integration tool to prepare a data pipeline typically for analytics or AI, they would use r or
[00:03:45] Or 1 of the integration tools and that's basically an analytical use case, right? The most popular 1 obviously, but then, you could also use an integration tool to really create a modern data management architecture, like create a data fabric architecture, or create a data mesh Paradigm or even create data products, right? So if those are in your priority and integration tool is at the heart of it because without it, you simply don't, you know, integrate data.
[00:04:14] The third 1 is actually becoming more and more prominent are they integration tools? That allow our subject matter experts are citizen integrators are less.
[00:04:24] Technical data product owners to get in front of data management, use.
[00:04:30] Some of these low code Ai. And now, with the Advent of Technology use language models and embedded co-pilots to prepare and transform and Wrangle the data something that they've always complained about taking like 80% of the time, it's just to prepare the data. Can they do it with some of these tools and save time through a low code environment? That's that use case of enabling less technical Persona then comes something that is forgotten. What about operational? Use cases, do you think we're only doing integration for AI?
[00:05:01] 60% of our workloads in the company are about business operations.
[00:05:06] Inter-enterprise data sharing, creating a master data Hub, partner data sharing B2B. There's so many operational reporting so is your indicator.
[00:05:15] Tools good at that because some of them really aren't, right? So you have to make that selection with that nuance and then finally supporting AI projects. Can it help me really create a semantic model. Can they help me? Actually, uh, enable a Knowledge Graph if necessary, right? Can it help me really work with multimodal data and unstructured data. So so that's that use case.
[00:05:36] Little bit about the market, right? So the data integration Market continues to grow at an astounding rate where most markets grow in single digits with the situation in the world that we find this 1 grew at about 13 and a half percent last year, which was much more than our estimation of about 6%. Cagr, it's already hit 6 billion, so if you're a vendor, you should be excited and you should continue to do R&D and
[00:06:00] Investment in integration rather than the whole platform. This is important. Uh, what's what's kind of important here? Is that what's LED that growth. So if you think about it, the cloud providers, I'm talking about the 3 Cloud providers. We're talking about obviously the big data management platforms, like data breaks and Snowflake and also the Enterprise application of it is like service. Now,
[00:06:21] Their integration capability and tools has grown 4X, then some of the independent, you know, Standalone vendors. Like for instance uh maybe have an issue or Informatica, where the growth rates have been single digit. So that kind of tells you something that people are going into a Lakehouse approach or people are going into a cloud data management platform approach. Let's say Microsoft Fabric and it is
[00:06:45] Kind of starting to make sense for them to utilize their integration embedded technology and 2 rather than a standalone tool. That's the Nuance, that's that's the logic behind it in most cases that may not work or it may work. So it's not relevant that just because we are in Microsoft fabric, we should only use Azure data Factory, that's important to, you know, sort of gauge, but that's what the market is. That's where the market is going. Uh, what's also important to understand that the revenue shifting from Standalone tools to more sort of converged data platforms, right? So talk talking about AWS sagemaker. Lakehouse I'm talking about data bricks, platforms, snowflake,
[00:07:19] People are buying these end-to-end platforms that are well, integrated technology and data management including metadata integration quality governance and persistence.
[00:07:30] Rather than Standalone tools. But again, it may not be for everyone but that's the momentum of the market.
[00:07:36] Drum roll. So that's the magic quadrant. That's, that's the latest version of a magic quadrant. Some of you have seen it, many of you may not have. So just take a minute to sort of take this in. Uh, the best way to read a magic quadrant is not where the dot is. It's how you think about the x-axis, or the vision of the market and the y-axis on the ability to execute meaning is the vendor executing on current requirements and current use cases. Well enough, then that's executing well.
[00:08:08] Is the vendor also futuristic. And thinking, about covering the upcoming use cases through capabilities and R&D is vision.
[00:08:15] And so obviously, when you think about leaders, when you think about challenges, that's how you sort of really picture them, but this is a sign. What do you think this is? This is a sign of a mature market, right? When about 50% of the vendors are in the leaders, quadrant it this is a mature Market. But what what this is also telling you is that there is still room for growth from a Visionary angle. There's still vendors there which are improving capabilities, particularly in data integration support for AI, use cases and their own embedded in, you know, uh, embedded automation capabilities to automate data integration. Those are the areas where the vision seems to be coming from. And, uh, what this also tells you, if you look, you know, carefully that all 3 Cloud providers are
[00:09:00] Now in leaders just 5 years back, they were not even there so they have rapidly improved. Their functionality of their integration technology.
[00:09:09] So the so, so that the customer really doesn't have to at least if they're in their ecosystem, if the customer is like, really married to that ecosystem, they may not have to evaluate third party tools. So, you know, this this tells you a lot.
[00:09:21] But we want to really double click on each coordinate, 1 by 1. So, I'm talking about the top, right? I'm talking about the leaders and I have to keep iterating and reiterating just because of vendor is in the leaders. Quadrant, you don't have to just start with them. There is a trade, there is a fundamental characteristic of this quadrant, which is
[00:09:39] A leader in data. Integration is basically a vendor that has good market share.
[00:09:45] Share good Market mind. Share good, presence. Significant Partnerships with system, integrators vars, which are obviously resellers. It has offices in various geographies, which means it can actually support their slas, uh, they have significant, uh, you know, uh, uh, adoption rates, uh, they have huge installed base and so on, right? And, and what's most important is, that, these usually support the entirety of the data integration capability market. So they just don't provide ETL. They also support and complement that with replication, which streaming with virtualization in 1 platform. They don't just support 1, use case. They usually support multiple integration, use cases, not just in
[00:10:30] Engineering, but also supporting operational use cases, right? So, you evaluate a leader, not for every requirement. It has to be 1 where you need a comprehensive integration technology that starts to be adopted organization wide.
[00:10:47] Independent of the use case, where you feel like this is what I'm going to be adopting for my integration requirements end to end.
[00:10:56] Also like to talk about a couple of vendors, I can't talk about all but this is mostly in priority of the inquiries that I get. So if you're a vendor that's the reason I'm not covering you. Uh,
[00:11:06] I'm going to talk about Informatica because they've been leaders for a long time recently. Uh, Salesforce uh, obviously are have their intent to AC
[00:11:15] Buy them. I think the acquisition closes next year. It's important to know that.
[00:11:18] Informatica has something called the cloud, uh, you know, data integration.
[00:11:23] Uh, you know, platform it's part of their broader idmc intelligent data management Cloud. Uh, customers utilize them for their end-to-end functionality because they also integrate the data quality and governance Technologies within that idmc platform. So if you're looking for an end-to-end technology, that helps customers don't like them. And yes, I'm here to say that too. Uh, because sometimes their pricing model is extremely difficult to forecast. They they they they bill you, they bill, you on something called, ipus their processing units. Informatica processing units. You have to basically forecast how much you're going to be?
[00:12:00] Utilizing their technology by running their jobs, on an, you know, uh, based on uh, you know, the IPOs, it's a very difficult for some companies to estimate, how many IPOs, their workloads might need and how that scales. And so to buy those number of IPOs which do not run into your next year, if you, you know, if you don't use them, you lose them, right? So those are some of the things that customers sometimes, don't like, uh, also wanted to touch, uh,
[00:12:25] A little bit about uh independent software vendor called denodo. So I'm I'm calling them out because they are a leader even though they're highly specific to 1 style of integration with the perform. Well,
[00:12:38] Which they sent on The Mists for which is data virtualization. So if you're in the market for a tool that connects rather than
[00:12:45] Collects that connects to your Source systems in place. Abstracts the underlying data model virtually accesses the data in memory and can deal with a bit of medium workload and medium volume workloads, and then use this view for faster, turnaround time to analytics. Or, you know, just testing out your use case, uh, denoto actually has various Innovations Dynamic, query acceleration, uh, support with, you know, metadata to power, which pipelines are working. How do you fix them? I think from a data, which is perspective, they do really well. But recently, they've also started to go beyond virtualization so obviously, uh, you know, if you really have a view that is big enough, you can write that back into your database. They support that materialized view persistence and uh, yeah. Uh,
[00:13:30] They have a service called Agoda which is more of a managed service if you're looking for a cloud managed service. They have that too. Uh, yeah, so those are a couple of Microsoft if you're a Microsoft customer, don't be disappointed. So uh, have to cover that we get too many inquiries on it. So, Microsoft fabric is their ecosystem, right? As you're probably aware 1 way or the other, you will be on Microsoft fabric, even if you wanted or not, and, uh, that's something that, you know, will be pushed, right? Uh, my prediction is, if you're a Microsoft customer, you will be on a fabric or you'll not be a Microsoft customer at, you know, at some point in time, uh, Microsoft have their embedded integration tool, called Azure data Factory, I would think of it more as an elt, into their data Lakehouse
[00:14:12] Uh, they also support real-time rep.
[00:14:15] Application through change data capture now.
[00:14:17] Uh, they also have something called synapse direct link which allows you to directly link the data warehouse to some external uh files and tables within Microsoft's ecosystem.
[00:14:26] They're good enough. But I have to say, if you really pushing all of your data into Microsoft fabric 1 Lake, then that's a good solution and technology for integration for you, right? So otherwise if you have a multi Cloud hybrid environment, you probably have to augment their integration tool with a more independent integration tools.
[00:14:45] All right.
[00:14:46] Moving on to Challengers what are challenges before you even look at vendors. Um, challenges are in interesting, breed, right? So challenges, are those vendors that execute extremely well on the current.
[00:15:00] Market requirements. All right chances are they will be 80%. Well, you know they will hit on 80% of your use cases and probably at a cheaper cost and probably will do that better than some of the leaders. Even what they will be challenged on. As you can probably tell is on Innovation and differentiation so they run the business. They don't grow and outperform for you, right? They, they really don't investigate and adopt some, you know, capabilities. Like real incorporation of AI to make data pipelines, more resilient or automated. They will not automate data integration code for you. They will not fix broken mappings for you. I mean, those are the things which Visionaries will do, which will come on left next, right? But if you look at some of the vendors here consulate,
[00:15:45] Went, I would like to start with, right? So, if any of your Kafka users, and if you're an event streaming company, or you're streaming in event system or Source, you're probably using Kafka as your message queue, uh, constantly synonymous with that, right? I mean, they're really actually most companies who use Kafka and want support go with console, and then there are smaller companies like Red Panda, 2. But confident, dominates their, uh, recently, uh, IBM announced their intent to acquire them. Most of these independent software vendors, will eventually start to go into these directions of Acquisitions because it makes sense for larger vendors, right? And confident gives IBM what they didn't have, which was a good streaming solution a good replication solution. So if you're into streaming space, if you're an IBM customer, maybe this is a good option for you. I'd like to talk
[00:16:30] About 5 grand. 5, grand is a company that has grown through Acquisitions 5, France. Go to market is very different, right? They don't attack the. It part of the business, they go into the business units and say, hey guys, are you fed up of data Engineers? Never giving you data on time? Well well that's what we're here for right. We're going to give you a very streamlined connector from workday into Salesforce get the job done. No funny business. That's what our pricing model will be after we will manage the API changes. The connectors will not go down. We are connected company. We're really good at it and then of course, you know, that was a great business model until it wasn't and since then they've started to make some Acquisitions, right? So hvr is a acquisition that they made back in, I think 24 HVAC
[00:17:15] For real-time sync between or synchronization between databases since then. They've made a couple more really interesting ones census is a reverse ETL tool. So if you've got data in the warehouse and you've done some great stuff to that data and you want to put it back into your business application, that's called reverse ETL and census does that and since then they've merged with DBT, which is basically a SQL Centric, orchestration technology, right? So lots lots of great stuff happening in this space too. Uh so yeah, that's why you value a challenger when you want an established vendor for your requirements. Of now not in the future.
[00:17:50] Visionary. Uh, my favorite quadrant, I always watch out for vendors who are really investing in R&D who like to take chances, even though they the environment,
[00:18:00] Doesn't allow them to sap actually has slipped from the leaders this year into the Visionary quadrant and that's been because of some of their changes to their road map have been very futuristic, but haven't really, you know, they haven't exhibited those in production environments quite yet, right? So the execution is not happened. Uh, so yeah, let's start with the sap. So sap as you guys know, every vendor is trying to create an ecosystem, right? Is that clear? I think by now, you must know, right? So the ecosystem was are underway, right? It's Microsoft fabric versus lake house. Uh, you know, from AWS uh sorry uh, sagemaker from AWS versus data bricks versus snowflake. You get the idea right? And uh yeah, so sap has their own Vision, which is business data cloud. And
[00:18:45] Within business data Cloud, you have something called Data sphere and data sphere is their Collective service for integration quality metadata governance. And so Integrations, a bit of a, you know, uh, something that needs to be coming out a little bit more from our perspective. And, uh, 1 of the things we've also seen with sap is that, uh, you know, if you are an sap customer and you have a lot of the sap Erp data, that's where their integration Technology based more sense to take it into Hana for further analytics. And uh, if you're not then obviously you would not want to evaluate their integration tool so much.
[00:19:23] So yeah. Uh, another 1 I would like to talk about maybe uh, a snap logic so snap logic is
[00:19:30] Just synonymous with uh you know usage of machine learning and AI to make integration easy for engineers, right? Literally, the pro their their technology is called should get this right snap logic, agentic platform.
[00:19:44] Right. Other than marketing, what they actually exhibit is what is called snaps. So snap GPT is their co-pilot and you get a lot of these lovely snaps in the library. So if you're a data engineer, you don't repetitive Transformations. You can just use a snap and it'll help you write your pipeline better, right? It'll help you do repetitive Transformations quicker, or just automate those. They also have something called the auto sync and auto prep
[00:20:10] or Auto Rangel. So it'll automatically allow you to create an ingest. A
[00:20:15] Pipeline from a connector and then Auto Rangel will automate data preparation Transformations for you.
[00:20:20] Right? So yeah, those are The Visionaries. I would like to talk about and then some of the niche players. So Niche players are very interesting, don't get bogged down. Just because like, sometimes I feel really bad when I see that in an RFP, just because a vendor was a niche, you were just immediately eliminating them. Uh, absolutely the wrong way to read a magic quadrant as no shame in being a niche. Because sometimes Niche is, what you guys would need Niche. Is a vendor that is extremely relevant for a particular, use case, a particular capability, a particular geography may be, or maybe just a specializing in an aspect of integration. So just to give you an example, right?
[00:21:00] Uh, safe software uh, with their FME solution is synonymous with location and geospatial data integration. How about that? So you had a large vendor Informatica, but you were really missing out on the geospatial location intelligence capabilities. You had ezri giving you a lot of uh, you know, rgis and as we giving you some, you know, spatial data. You want to integrate that. Yeah, that's your option. Uh, let's talk about precisely precisely also, has grown through Acquisitions over the years. Uh, they're really good with Mainframe and uh traditional data modernization, right? So if you're a Mainframe, or if you got IBM Z series, you know, systems and you want to replicate that into a cloud data warehouse, like data breaks, they do that really well with uh with their technology, right? So,
[00:21:45] So evaluate Niche with that in mind, right? They're usually augmented for specific reasons, and they really are not adopted enterprise-wide end to end.
[00:21:56] All right. Uh, let's to touch a little bit, uh, on the honorable mentions, right? I mean, these are the vendors, who are prominent. We get a lot of inquiries about them. Uh, some of them really cool. They don't meet our inclusion criteria. It's really strict our inclusion criteria has to have X number of customers x amount of Revenue. I mean, at the end of the day we can only evaluate 20 on the magic code, right? So some of these cool guys miss out. Uh yeah let's start with DBT. For example I told you DBT is just well adopted its open source until you have DBT Cloud which is more obviously commercial managed.
[00:22:30] But if you're an analytics engineer, right? Who just wants to use SQL to create a dag, write a dilated a cyclical graph, as a way to orchestrate and integrate the data and there's like SQL is your thing like I would think DBT is absolutely synonymous. They're so popular that most large players actually support DBT at this point, including Microsoft.
[00:22:50] Uh, talk about are bite another. Yeah, like open source, right? Uh, we don't evaluate them unless they have a commercial model and the same things the case with are bite. It's open source. It's a connectors company, really good for the long tail of connectors. That some of the large vendors would not have for various complex sources and targets, right? So if you want to create your own connector through a cdk, they have that uh yeah, just a really good open source.
[00:23:15] Those company.
[00:23:16] Okay, so it looks like I'm quickly elapsing my time in 1, magic coordinate. So let's jump to the other 1 which could be as exciting, right? The magic wand for metadata, is not equal to a data catalog. Metadata Management systems are not just a catalog. I'll just like to start with that, right? But, uh, what I have to say is it's a market. That is the fastest growing in data management right now. It's small. But as you can tell, it's it's twice the cagr of integration 4 times, the cagr of a dbms, yes, small. The most interesting and the most exciting market right now is the metadata space, right?
[00:23:52] Uh yeah that's what I said. So compared to integration it is growing really really fast which brings me to the magic quadrant
[00:24:00] Uh, as you can clearly tell now compare and contrast this with the integration logic code and less number of vendors.
[00:24:07] A lot few in the leaders quadrant, that's a sign of a growing Market. Not a stagnant or a mature Market equivalent C vendors in each of the quadrants very difficult to evaluate because some of these vendors honestly don't even compete on all of the use cases. Metadata is a very strange space. You could just use a metadata for lineage. You could do use a metadata tool for impact analysis reporting. You could do use metadata management for improving your governance. You could use metadata management, just for creating a catalog for improved analytics. There are so many use cases to metadata that some of these vendors actually don't even really compete that much with
[00:24:45] Each other, right? But when they do, that's how it starts to look like. So let me start with the leaders quadrant. Uh, again, I'm not going to go through what a leader is. Hopefully that was clear right established space. Uh, lots of Partners, good install base, you know, uh, uh, the the the the really stable they won't probably get acquired anytime soon. Yeah, that's the leader and they actually hit on all of the use cases across the breadth of the market, right? Like to uh maybe start with who do we, who do we go with here? Uh, let's start with atlan, right? So atlan short form for Atlantis is actually growing pretty fast. They're close to about 300 customers. Uh, atland has this Knack of really picking on only those vendors or those customers. Sorry. Who
[00:25:30] Who have previously failed with metadata management, right? They've really not been able to adopt beyond anything just to catalog, right? And they go with a value. First model is something that they, you know, customers really like about them. Uh, another thing about adelin that we that we typically find is that it's incredibly easy to use and adopt, right. It's got a very good interface and it's very good with data governance, use cases. So if you're setting policy and you want to enforce policy for by encryption masking annotation at the metadata layer, so that the application developers don't have to do it that the apps layer. I think that's where, you know, uh, atland actually, uh, shines, uh,
[00:26:10] Also, like to cover Informatica because it's the biggest for those reasons again, acquired by sales.
[00:26:15] Force keep that in mind uh as much as they have promised to sell Informatica Standalone for now, it only remains to be seen how it gets Incorporated with the Salesforce strategy, with the Salesforce data Cloud as of right now, if they are independent informatica's uh
[00:26:32] Metadata tool is called the cloud data catalog and governance. So they look at 1 platform for data cataloging and governance. The reason that their leaders is because of their metadata driven AI engine call, clear, which becomes embedded in the entirety of this solution, right? So they access your metadata by scanning they Analyze This metadata and they give you insights on which pipelines are breaking, which metadata is duplicate. How to fix duplicate?
[00:27:00] Data right through the entirety of your workflow, right? So it's nothing that you call. It's the advisory that you get and that's called metadata anywhere orchestration for those of us who are interested. So, so yeah, that's where they're, they're interesting.
[00:27:15] Uh, challenges only 2. Uh, so not many people challenging. Uh, the leaders in the metadata space right now. Uh, yeah, challenges the challenges. They are really good with the current requirements of the market. Uh, uh, you know, calibra is 1 of them. Uh, the reason, uh, is that obviously some of the vision is not aligned to the market Vision. 1 thing about calibra is so I want to get the names right of the technology that they have. So they have the calibra data catalog and the calibra data governance they've made.
[00:27:45] Made a lot of acquisitions.
[00:27:46] The recent acquisitions that they've made were of DZ labs and other 1 which is rato which gives them access to unstructured data for governing unstructured data. Like really like to call that out. But kalibra is synonymous with data governance, complex data governance policies that are written and if you want basically to enforce policy at the data, level policy enforcement is when calibra is utilized the most
[00:28:12] Some of the cautions with calibra is customers reporting complex, pricing models, based on both users and also on objects of metadata that you want to resolve. So those are very difficult to sometimes, you know, uh, forecast as you can imagine and uh uh you know some of the
[00:28:30] Also, customers also believe that lineage is something that could be worked on a little bit more.
[00:28:36] Uh let's talk about Visionaries right? Uh, so yeah, we have some a couple of really cool Visionaries here. Uh, I'd like to start talking about, you know, service now, which obviously, uh, they came into this Market through the acquisition of data world. Uh, if you think about, uh, data.org, 1 of the biggest differentiations, because we're talking about Visionaries, it has to be differentiating, it has to be leading, right? That's why they are a Visionary, is that they've even before the acquisition, many years, before the acquisition, their take on metadata was not just a catalog. Their take on metadata was mostly about utilizing metadata creating knowledge crafts in.
[00:29:15] Reaching the knowledge graph with semantics creating or helping customers create an ontology, which is certainly become so relevant for AI adoption in AI use cases, right? So that has been, uh, you know, the area that they've fundamentally invested in that to also, uh, call out my Aussie colleagues in Alex Solutions are the only Aussie company on the magic, cordin relatively small. Uh, but if you're in the region or Singapore, Australia, and that's also their limitation that you can imagine, right? They don't obviously service many other uh, parts of the world really well but uh seriously like to call out Alex solution for their open metadata Hub and the unified inter intelligence platform. The open metadata Hub is just synonymous with connecting to every complex system and extracting, it
[00:30:00] Discovering metadata from those complex systems, right? So if you have a system that nobody is supporting for metadata extraction, maybe Alex could help their
[00:30:08] and then finally Niche players, right? So uh we have a quite a few Niche players in this uh quadrant because like it said,
[00:30:15] It's very difficult for a metadata vendor to cover. All the use cases equally well metadata for governance. Metadata for lineage metadata for impact analysis, metadata for analytics, being a good catalog. Also giving you good metadata scores for AI, it's a very difficult market. So some of them just say, no, I'm going to be good at 1 thing and that's 1 of the, uh, you know, vendors like solid datos, for example, solid data is is synonymous for complex lineage.
[00:30:45] For those of you who don't want to know about the market, but just have a complex lineage graph problem for operational use cases. If you're a bank, you want to see how your data is Flowing, who's touching the data, how complex Transformations are happening. You want to map all of that. You want your lineage to be real and graph and see how it changes based on AI agents using the data or customers changing the data. And you want that laugh graph of linear to be a living construct. That's obviously a vendor that you should be looking out for their also, Microsoft Partners. So if you're in the Microsoft fabric, uh, ecosystem and you're not enjoying Microsoft Fabrics, metadata tools, which is purview, then obviously solid data could be a good augment to that, right? That's how you use Niche vendors great. Uh, and uh, finally some honorable mention
[00:31:30] Why not?
[00:31:31] Can you see something interesting? All 3, Cloud providers, who were leaders in the integration, mq are actually honorable mentions, they don't even make the cut.
[00:31:39] And that tells you something.
[00:31:41] If you're evaluating an ecosystem metadata, is something that needs to be independent. Right now, most embedded metadata capabilities of large. Ecosystems, are not at par with independent software vendors in the metadata space. That's 1 thing. I like to do to you guys to take away. So yeah, I did something right over the fly, right? You may not find it in your in your back. I just wanted to sort of merge these 2 mqs, right? And so for you to finally take a last screen, grab of this. But when you sort of merge these
[00:32:15] Right? Only 4 vendors are common across these 2 mqs. Uh, what is it a takeaway or was it just fun to do that? Well, there is a takeaway, right? The takeaway is these are the vendors that if you start with a metadata catalog it'll really help their integration pipelines because they're well integrated, right? So uh yeah, maybe keep that in mind. If you have metadata integration to be integrated together, don't have separate vendors. You can start with the vendors that actually have these capabilities integrated in the common platform.
[00:32:46] All right, uh yeah. Uh, finally some recommendations and I know I'm late, sorry about that. Uh
[00:32:53] First of all, in the integration space, right? Evaluate multiple integration tools against the you
[00:33:00] Worst case data, integration data preparation for Less technical Persona. Operational and see whether 1, vendor suffices, or you have to augment in most cases with Niche players or Visionaries always. Think about evaluating your technology in that fashion because I don't see a 1 solution that fits all use cases in either of these markets right now, right? So it has to be use case driven and capability driven, don't try to just say just because I got Fabric or Sage maker or database, they're embed capabilities are just going to basically suffice for everything. Uh, from a metadata space, please evaluate mendus, which can go beyond just metadata collection like technical metadata collection but can also help me activate this metadata
[00:33:43] to give me insights on.
[00:33:45] Where my pipelines are failing or whether I'm compliant to my policy, that's called active metadata. So in your RFP, always, check for active metadata analysis of a vendor, and then, finally, always look at converged platforms where these capabilities are delivered as services that are well integrated rather than tools that are disjointed. Right. So look at common platforms where integration and quality metadata governance are usually well integrated rather than separate tools that don't share metadata. So you don't go by the most, amazing integration tool the most amazing metadata tool and they never share metadata with each other because there's no metadata sharing standard that the world is really adopted even to this day. So make sure that your vendors actually share metadata. Otherwise it will be a problem.
[00:34:28] With that. I'll leave some
[00:34:30] Ed reading for you. Thank you for for your time today. Have a good day.