[00:00:03] Good afternoon, everyone.
[00:00:05] If you're coming on day 3 to my session, especially giving up your lunch. I believe data integration must be a topic of Interest or a pressing need for you. Thank you for joining me. Um, and I have been covering data integration for about 7 years in my time at Gartner learning Trends. Best practices following vendors, what they do looking at clients, how do they apply these Technologies? And so on. And prior to that, I have been using these Technologies running data, engineering teams in different organizations. Now, thank you for joining me. I want to start with a simple question.
[00:00:41] Is ETL dead.
[00:00:43] Put ETL.
[00:00:45] Why everything bulk batch into that bucket? Is it dead?
[00:00:49] Yes, no. Is there. Anyone who believes it is dead.
[00:00:53] Someone is, we are going to convince you as a team as a group.
[00:00:57] Yeah, okay, so what we see I have not come across not even a single organization till date who has not been depending upon bulk or batch movement of data.
[00:01:09] And what are they doing? Instead, they complement their bulk and batch style of integration with all these other types of integration doing change, data capture or replication synchronization apis, virtualization, streaming and more recently. All these AI Centric, orchestration, all of these patterns are emerging and so on. So we
[00:01:30] We are going to look at some of those emerging patterns in our discussion. And the question is, why is ETL still not dead?
[00:01:38] The answer because your organizations are buying new systems.
[00:01:43] You are buying or or are you building new use cases your servicing new business priorities and all of that makes data integration the need for moving, transforming data from 1 State, 1 application, 1 system to another system and that need is a top business necessity, right? So today in this session, the promise is 3-fold, we will cover these 3 key issues. What are the emerging trends?
[00:02:09] What are the leading practices among organizations? And lastly, how
[00:02:15] Oh, you can apply some of these Trends and practices and improve your integration maturity in your organization. So first off, let's look at emerging technology Trends in data integration market and I'm going to bring probably 6 or 7 as the time permits. So first stop.
[00:02:33] I started with a question, is ETL there and I wanted to First cover physical data movement,
[00:02:39] Physical data movement is a necessity. And if you look, there are many different categories of vendors. You hear terms like zero ETL? What does that mean? What does that mean? You don't do ETL anymore or who's doing the ETL and there are many vendors who even provide data Federation and virtualization capabilities? And
[00:03:00] You you have vendors that can help you to replicate data from 1 system and broadcast that into 10 different systems. Or there are also tools that can consolidate data from 20 or 30 different systems and bring into 1 system and so on. So all these styles of physical data movement is still prevalent in the industry. So I called a 4 different categories. The first 1 is data replication from players like oracle's Golden Gate clicks, replicate to 5 brand year by there are many vendors out there that's almost like a solved problem. So if you are an organization uh I called out earlier. Uh, when I was discussing the top trends I said,
[00:03:45] Uh, I know of a telecom company that has a central uh, data warehouse running on an IBM stack. And they have many many Engineers, whose job is to make sure the 100 AUD Source systems are replicated effectively into their Landing zone. So that this platform serves as a hub for many, many operational and analytical use cases, roughly, a third of all their data Engineers are involved into changing the pipeline. Drifts, as things move and change why? They still keep the state active. But today that's the category of Market. There, everything is configuration driven, you set up the source, you set up the Target and you give the right permissions to these tools to say complete the initial load then,
[00:04:30] For every change that happens at source capture the change log ship that to the Target.
[00:04:35] Keep up the time stamp sequence Replay that in the Target and voila, your Mainframe data, probably can come into snowflake or your sap data can come into, uh, your let's say data bricks or other platforms of choice. Now, uh, there are some restrictions some vendors have what they allow, what they don't allow. You also need to enable some degree of logging log shipping and depending upon your licenses at source. Things need to change the second category. You look at cloud service providers. For example, if you notice, uh, fabric has something called as a mirroring capability, uh, that enables you to bring data, let's say from
[00:05:15] AWS Cloud into their 1 Lake. Uh, fabric component, 1 Lake Lakehouse component, you can mirror. So no development involved. You're setting up your sources. You're setting up the Target and every 10-15 minutes, your incrementally, getting all your data development efforts are going down. That's the catch. I want you to get here. Uh, AWS has an equal and component, call zero ETL, catch the name, and I'll show you in the next slide. Similar names what different functionality from a different vendor. And as you look at that third character, third box here, DBT becomes a tool of choice for transformation. A quick show of hands. How many of you actually use DBT in your organization? Look around look around. So that is a very dominant Trend. That is a more
[00:06:00] Merging as well. So, uh, DBT building models for your data using a pro. SQL proc code approach is becoming very prevalent and lastly, using airflow and airflow based managed services to orchestrate the moment of data across heterogeneous architectures or becoming very, very quite often. So that's the first Trend, there is still room and still the prevailing trend of physically moving data. Now, the opposite Trend to it is, don't move data, leave your data very it is but create a semantic obstruction and virtually enable the access to that. And for example, if you look data virtualization players like Deno, do Starbursts and previously DMO at scale. Uh, now some of these vendors got
[00:06:45] Backward and while some of them are still out there. So that's a dominant pattern where you can connect to a mainframe system and sap system and Oracle database and a cloud-centric object store, I purposefully made it very, very heterogeneous. Imagine you can connect all these systems without having the need to physically. Copy move data. If you're running a holding company, that's the type of architecture you really need for every individual operating organization rather than physically moving data. Leave the data where it is, use the technology that is out there, connect with those data sources. Catalog, your data enable virtual access Federated access via virtual queries over the data. That's a very, very compelling all
[00:07:30] To native to physical data movement cloud. Service providers offer such capabilities earlier, Microsoft fabric mirroring for physical movement equally shortcuts or Google bigquery's external tables. These are enabling you to query the data that sits outside of your uh platform. So that is not going to be very performant. However, if the use cases all about data Discovery, you can easily do it, then you're looking at data management platforms like Snowflake and database. Look at the example from Snowflake 0 ETL, did you catch the name between the last slide and the slide? Same vendors? Same uh sorry, same names, but different approaches. So you need to be really careful when you say what is a zero ETL uh you know it could mean
[00:08:15] Many things depending upon the vendor of your choice. Just understand. What is the integration style behind? What is the best purpose for using this, in my organization? How can I accelerate the time to deployment? That's how you look at it. And lastly, even app providers, like sap BDC has an offering called connect BDC stands for business data cloud and BD, BDC connect enables you to query data that sits probably on your snowflake Data Warehouse on AWS cloud while your BDC uh um uh your able to query that data uh natively and Salesforce has something called as zero copy. Uh within your Salesforce data Cloud, you have some data while some of the other data, let's say it is sitting in an Oracle database running in an AWS cloud.
[00:09:00] About why an audience service, you can actually look up. That data, you can join up, you can run some use cases. So these These are prevalent.
[00:09:08] Now, the third Trend I have picked up is streaming, uh,
[00:09:11] Or stream data integration.
[00:09:13] So streaming is usually associated with operational, real time decision making use cases. For example, Telemetry data you have manufacturing plans, you are looking at different large-sized equipments. Maybe the Telemetry is like a heartbeat. The frequency between 2 beats is really what your you may be measuring. So those are the type of original use cases. However, if you look at some of the highlighted ones you're looking at feeding data to your decision, intelligence platforms, feeding data to your agentic AI,
[00:09:45] Systems are becoming much more compelling, and that is why the need and the use for stream data integration is surging among our, uh, clients that we, uh, connect with, in fact, uh, agentic data streaming is picked up as 1 of the top trends in data and analytics for 2026. And there are some representative vendors out there, uh, from Oracle to IBM to hyperscalers. They all have excellent streaming capabilities. Now, as we move to the fourth trend,
[00:10:17] Solutions for data integration, they are converging.
[00:10:21] It is no longer viable to buy a tool for data uh uh ETL another tool for elt, another for reverse ETL, another for
[00:10:30] API management, another for virtualization. And so on there are many vendors from Ab initio to Informatica which is now Salesforce or precisely or click they offer integration platform capabilities. So 1 platform multiple integration Styles. It gives you the flexibility to choose what style you're going to use for your use case, makes it much more easier in terms of managing your architectures and so on and the fifth Trend that I have picked up.
[00:10:59] Okay.
[00:11:00] Please call, right? Thank you.
[00:11:03] The fifth 1 is uh what is differentiating? If you look carefully everything that I have spoken about can be classified as yeah, we have seen all of that but more recently
[00:11:15] Ontology driven integration is becoming very, very differentiating, especially for the need of agentic and AI use cases. So you can build an ontology, which is simply an abstraction of your data against different systems, the locations of your systems, you're building it and your mapping the semantic terms from different parts of your business into these ontologies. You populate data. That's why it is. Ontology based data integration, they become heavy. They are not just conceptual anymore, they become the ontologies or heavy, they are queryable and then they sit within a graph database, using rdf structures. And that makes the data queryable for AI and agentic you.
[00:12:00] Use cases. So if you're looking for something to deal with data integration at this stage and be relevant for your AI and agentic use cases, you should evaluate vendors such as pallante or alter. Uh, now alter is semmens or fabric, introduced a new component called IQ stratio. There are many vendors out there who take this ontology Centric data integration approach and lastly AI powered integration is becoming mainstream. It is no longer a sidekick anymore. So for example, there are 3 different categories in which you can actually do. Those are lens through which you can see your data integration tooling providers. Uh, how much or
[00:12:45] Mentation capabilities. Do I get how much automation capabilities and how much optimization capabilities do I get? And for example I'm just picking an example here, AI assisted pipeline development. Think about this feature. Do we have any developers here, anyone?
[00:13:03] Great. You're going to love it. So uh think about you can give a sample pipeline export from your tool and say, hey, this is the process control flows. Boiler plates that we add every time we process data, we do all these things. Make a note of it. This is the nomenclature you're feeding that as a template a blueprint and then you're saying now create me a pipeline
[00:13:26] Similar to that. But this is the source. This is the top.
[00:13:30] Target these are the Transformations. These are the address cleansing enrichments and so on that I need now. Build a pipeline for me, document it for me, check into the git repository test, this with some C data for me.
[00:13:43] What is happening behind the scene? Your you are being assisted by a by a co-worker. Uh, in a capacity that these data integration tooling uh, is actually able to do a lot of work for you. You still are the 1 to decide. I, I wouldn't do that. And you have your reasons and these agents are getting better at being a co-worker for you and so on, so that those type of capabilities are very differentiating. So, uh, the best thing is, uh, don't change what you currently have. That's a massive
[00:14:15] Project. You know, I'm not promoting rip and replacement but see whether you're operating on the latest versions of the products. Sometimes you could be running the same product uh, on premises, but the cloud version of the same product has some of these capabilities from the vendor. So, uh, think what makes the Strategic, uh, business case for you to adopt these type of capabilities? Is it is it worth to hire more people to do the work, or to equip your existing stuff with the right kind of tools to approach? Yours is what is critical. There are a lot of Representative vendors, C data, uh, snap logic, uh Google material and material and created a new product called Maya, and Maya has agents. You can, uh, you can create your own agents for building pipelines for managing pipelines observing your pipeline.
[00:15:00] And many, many such things. So, take advantage of these things. These are the emerging Trends. Now, we are moving to the second half, which is what are the leading practices among data integration users?
[00:15:13] First 1, I want to introduce a new term. How many of you have heard minimum viable products show of hands?
[00:15:19] Yeah, everyone. How many of you have built? Minimum lovable products?
[00:15:25] Hey, I I'm surprised I'm seeing hands too. Great. Excellent. So the idea is many organizations. They jump into
[00:15:35] Create once the business user asks for something we seem to be developing things very, very quickly, just because it comes from your cio's office or CEO's office.
[00:15:45] Does not mean that is the right thing to do. You need to prove the business value before you actually invest in full scale data, engineering choosing architecture tools approaches, uh, and and solving your technical debts managing governance, creating runbooks, it's heavy work. So the approach Gartner recommends is turn your uh, your your backlogs into an ideas repository, there is a place for backlogs later on but don't start. There there is a place for ideation has this idea been developed tested and have you been able to develop a minimum lovable product? What do you do with a product that you love the most? You use it often?
[00:16:25] Look at your smartphones. How many of us carry that? You know, we somehow it's like I don't want to
[00:16:30] Lose my left hand or right hand, uh, or you know, some for some people, it could be the brain or whatever, right? So that's the minimum lovable product approach. Look at how many people will use the product when you build it and you don't need it to be full scale, the test of your success,
[00:16:46] Is if a business user walks into your office. Knock knock.
[00:16:50] Body. I need to build this.
[00:16:52] How quickly can we turn it around 2 hours, 3 hours. You give them a minimum viable, product. They play with that during the same working day. They are able to give you feedback. That's the measure of your success.
[00:17:04] Okay, the ability to prototype fast. Build many prototypes among 20, 30 prototype, you might identify 1 that is really needed for your business. And that,
[00:17:15] You pushed through the full data engineering life cycle, that's when you add the item to the backlog. So don't start with building everything. The business is asking and overcomplicate things. So that's the first best practice. I want to leave with you second.
[00:17:28] You're going to be really mindful that data integration is no longer a central function.
[00:17:34] You're going to enable self-service, you're going to at the same time not leave those people who are exploring your data to be burdened with managing what they are building.
[00:17:47] So, how do you, how do you solve this problem? While you give them the autonomy. You also need to bring and think about God rail standards, uh, operated in a proper production path. So, I give you
[00:18:00] 2, different paths.
[00:18:01] Almost every client that I speak to, they have these, they have an established production path, your pipelines. Run at industry scale. You can deploy if something breaks. There is somebody to attend to. Their are, there is an incident mechanism and everything and equally there are also tools set up within Central, uh, within controlled workspaces where people can experiment play bring their own data. Do things, don't stop there. That's the guidance, the best practice. Is you start there? You end here. And in between the 2, you need to bring a gatekeeping process. You need to have your eyes into what are people doing within that controlled workspace? Tracking the operational metadata. If somebody is pulling data from 10 different places, doing some curation,
[00:18:45] Populating something and 20 people in his or her team. They seem to use that 100 times within the day. That is a shadow process. Your offer is, can we productize that can we take ownership of that? Can we put that into the production path for you and relieve you of your duties? So that you can go and be much more creative, that's the best practice. I want you to catch here. Then moving on product development, how many of you build data products in your organization?
[00:19:19] I expected a bit more, very good. Thank you for your response in a survey we find out 4 out of 5 organizations, they say, or at least, they claim, they are already building data products.
[00:19:30] And these are reusable data products and because they are reusable, you build multiple data, and analytic Solutions using them. Now,
[00:19:38] These product teams they become effective when they adopt data Ops practices. So, that's your product development, life cycle products at the end, and the different stages. And if you see the product teams, what they are trying to do at each stage, they bring the devops mindset of continuously, testing continuously, integrating continuously absorbing validating your contracts, or they always up to date within your uh, products. That's the, that's the best practice that you need to take away from here.
[00:20:07] Now, product teams are supported by your central platform team and platform teams, uh, among got
[00:20:15] Study what we find out. They are very, very, uh, interested in observability capabilities. They want to reduce the levels of incidents. Sometimes not just reacting to incident, but proactively knowing when an incident might happen. And so on. So you're being the data, observing the data pipelines, observing, uh, the cost that is Behind These pipelines and observing the behaviors of your users who use the data and so on. So the data, observability can take many different shades. The 1 on the top right corner is the 1. I'm talking about which is observing your data pipelines knowing what goes inside the pipeline. Looking at data, volumes to the performance of your pipeline, the lineage, the content of data. Is it sensitive in nature, is the schema drift.
[00:21:00] So, all of these things are essential for you to make sure your platform is much more stable. So the consumers of the services of your platforms which are the product teams they're getting proven, uh, output, that's the whole idea behind and moving on uh heterogeneous, architectures.
[00:21:19] More and more. We see Gartner clients not sticking to 1 Cloud. Not sticking to 1 technology provider. They are, their architectures are very hybrid, very heterogeneous sometimes moving data, between clouds and so on. So the best practice is
[00:21:36] bring a separation of where execution is happening.
[00:21:40] And where the control of that execution needs to happen.
[00:21:45] Recommendation is be interested in, uh, in in pushing down the compute, where the data has the heaviest gravity of the mass, that's where you need to keep your execution, whereas your control tower, can simply be the orchestration, the your owning the business rules, the logic, the dependencies between, uh, different jobs. That's what you should be focusing on. And, uh, next best practice is about, okay. It's not just structured data, but you need to be able to handle, semi-structured and unstructured content because you are generative. AI business applications, such as you want to interact and build a chat with data experience is no longer just limited to structured content.
[00:22:30] Content, uh, we have seen many customers develop such capabilities. And this is where I want to introduce a new discipline phrase. We have recently coined calling it data engineering 2.0.
[00:22:43] Data engineering 2.0 in the, in the old school data engineering. It is all about structured data, capturing business documents. Uh, identifying sources targets mapping rules, building pipelines, testing it promoting from Dev test to prod, operating it. And you can, you can increase the Rhythm to having weekly releases and so on, but that's not enough. You need to expand into ontology development skills, into your teams Beyond data modeling, looking Beyond data syntax and structure to looking at data semantics and the context of data, how data is
[00:23:15] Not just prepared for humans anymore humans and machines. When I say missions agents and all these AI uh Frameworks. So you need the ability to develop or rather uh handle.
[00:23:28] Unstructured content as well. And the last, uh, best practice I want to uh, bring is today. Cost is no longer, uh, somebody else's problem. If you are on cloud, cost is everybody's problem. You need to know some of the dimensions of these. If you run a pipeline once in your on-premises, you probably uh, don't see a difference, you run it a thousand times. If your server is available, irrespective of how much volume you push through, you're not going. Not even paying an, A Penny extra to your, uh, to your to your, uh, Appliance or
[00:24:00] Your Hardware provider, but you cannot say that in Cloud, you run the same job 100 times. Every time you are running, uh, it is being metered as a separate consumption, and you're starting to pay for that. So, as developers as people who manage your data, integration workloads, be aware of the different components. What is the vendor's pricing model? You know, what is the execution time? Do I need, am I, am I running something? Uh, on a daily or hourly or or every minute or even millisecond based, you know, the more your time window comes down, your your cost and your complexity, they start to go higher. That's an example right now moving towards the very last section.
[00:24:39] I introduced to you a ton of best practices, a ton of emerging Trends now.
[00:24:45] How can they help you to improve your data integration maturity? So Gartner has come up with a data integration maturity framework. This is slightly uh been there for many years. Now, I want to walk you through and we are going to look at 5 different dimensions that you can actually do assessment of where you are and move your needle further towards, uh, the the matured state. So, the first state, we call it ad hoc doing point-to-point integration. There is no defined methodology. No. Clear ownership of who does what? And, uh, tools are randomly selected across your business. And that's that's there is no sense of collecting metadata at all. So it's this is the ad hoc State and as you go from there,
[00:25:29] You're getting.
[00:25:30] Into what we call as the enlightened State. Okay. Integration is a real problem. We recognize that as a business necessity, therefore we are not going to deal with point-to-point Integrations. We are going to take probably a centralized Hub approach and minimize uh, those Integrations. Uh, you're going to Define proper ownerships of the systems, the contracts of the interfaces and, and which tools are being used. Your, your probably at that point, trying to centralize and establish a data integration or data, engineering team, which will build and manage those pipelines. And so on, and moving forward, you then come into a state of established and that is where the formal data engineering practices established. Apologies. I said at the previous board, this is where it is. Uh, you're now looking for example, the value
[00:26:15] First model, uh, which I spoke about the minimum allowable products. You're, you're trying all of these things. You're introducing, um, data observability mechanisms to what pipelines are being, uh, uh, developed. You're adopting multiple integration Styles. Not just, uh, ETL or elt, but bringing virtualization API streaming and so on. And, uh, you're, you're also developing the ability to manage unstructured data. Now, let me push the needle further, I would say most organizations. This is where they are. I'm not seeing, you know, for the down the line. But that's where many are now. Pushing the needle, further is the enhanced stage now, um, how can you convert the different styles of integration, not using different tools but taking advantage of conversion.
[00:27:00] Platforms in the market where you can build your own pipelines and then enabling your business domains so that they can be self-serving. Uh, you set up a marketplace where they can build their products, they can publish products, uh, and somebody else can search and start using those products in different areas. You're bringing all those capabilities that's, uh, servicing the needs of your business, domains much more accurately. And you then invest in, uh, operational, excellent disciplines like data, Ops finops cost management, uh, data pipelines and then your even investing in Knowledge Graph, or ontology driven integration. So, that's an enhanced State. Now, if you push the boundary even further in an argument at State, you're looking at an optimized state, for example, at the
[00:27:45] Thought I spoke about what if you can feed a templated pipeline as a blueprint and you're asking, uh, the AI agent to create a similar sort of pipeline, but for a new use case, that's the type you're looking at and your your workloads are much more optimized at that point. And so on. So what is your goal? We're coming very close to the end of today's session. The goal is, how do I scale and optimize data integration and that box is exactly where your ultimate priority is and the answer to that lies in 5 different areas. We have identified 5, Focus areas and the first Focus area is about balancing data integration styles.
[00:28:24] Knowing what integration style is best suitable for which use case is.
[00:28:30] Slightly an art and it is also an architecture decision of choice. So we sort of using for example streaming for all use cases or elt for all use cases you evaluate. What is the best 1 for the needs? So that's the number 1 and number 2. You also think about deployment options are these deployed as a pass offering or are these, uh, deployments going to be much more optimized. So which means remember the separation between, uh, the execution and the control planes, you bring all of these type of practices here. The third area is your organization models. How are you going to help your domains be self-sufficient? Uh, while they build products and so on? And how are you? Uh, uh, applying the
[00:29:15] Value first model. How are you enhancing the user experience? So that when they are dealing with, uh, a huge volumes of De you, they get to profile the data even before they touch or do any integration to it, and the fourth area is focusing on operations Excellence. You really want to be good at cicd? Devops, uh, the software mindset, you bring that that's data. Ops you, your cost conscience. Always balancing between cost and value. What is the cost for this workload and how much value do I get back? If I spend this much, what is the value? What is the written on your investment that 1? And lastly, you are looking at, is there a way to optimize the cost, is there a way to optimize the workloads and the
[00:30:00] Very last 1 is being heavily focused on your metadata and AI support capabilities such as the use of knowledge, graphs uh such as uh the use of agentic interfaces and bringing in your metadata cataloging and data observability. So these are the 5 areas that if you focus on the best practices and the top trends that I discussed related to these, you can push the needles of your metadata maturity. Sorry data integration maturity. As you can see the needle is not going linear as you address on many different areas. You go from established to enhanced to augmented, that's the end state. So that's the whole idea which is covered in this action plan. So if you are in charge of many things you can apply this action plan and be successful.
[00:30:45] Proceeding in uh, enhancing your data integration maturity and we have a ton of research as well uh and this deck also has an appendix section.
[00:30:54] Where I have given the, uh, Magic quadrant, and the critical capabilities evaluation. Uh, earlier I spoke about how, uh, AI is a game changer for your data integration tools. You get access to all those reports as well with that. I want to say thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, have a wonderful conference
[00:31:11] Thank you.