[00:00:05] My name is Eric Banu, I lead AI research at Gartner, when I was given that Monday 2 years ago, I had a full head of hair.
[00:00:13] and then a lot happened in between and this is what happens to me now which my kids marry a lot of fun of
[00:00:19] What are we trying to do? Today is to assess the role of the AI leader.
[00:00:23] And it is something that started to appear in Enterprises about 5 years ago. But we are seeing an acceleration of that role within Enterprises. Sometimes, the AI leader takes care of everything AI in the organization, and that's the only thing he or she does. But often, it's also associated with another function, not for long, usually, usually that person.
[00:00:45] Hands up handing with a lot on the AI, which is already a huge mandate. As we are going to talk about
[00:00:51] We believe that actually AI is not just the, just the tool, it's the existential Catalyst for business reinvention.
[00:00:58] And as I go through more and more of executive meetings, executive committees or board meetings, I'm getting into that mandate as well. I'll give you a little anecdote.
[00:01:08] We do a conference like this 1, all of Gartner called the Symposium and we do that every year, the largest 1 we have is in the US and we decided to do all every Monday. Now for the last 2 years, a CEO day, just 1 day with a CEO's, we're at 15 of them, then we had 45 of them, we'll have 100 this year and I would like to participate into some of those
[00:01:30] I started to present Ai. And 1 of the CEO, which perspective is always. Very interesting. Stopped me in the middle and said, Eric, all that AI stuff. You know, we hear a lot about it, a lot of hype about it, but it doesn't transform anything. I get some productivity gain now and there, but that's mostly what I'm getting and I told him I'm sorry, sir, but I think it's your fault.
[00:01:51] and he said to me, how dare you
[00:01:53] And I'm like, I'm really sorry to have to say that maybe many people working for you are not, you know, purview to be able to say this. But what comes with AI is the transformation. If you don't give permission to your people to transform anything and they are afraid for their jobs, are they going to do anything for transformation? Are you going to get these productivity? Because that's safe.
[00:02:14] The rest.
[00:02:15] Of it. You have to give permission to the organization to the example comes from the Top. If you're not giving that permission, they won't do it.
[00:02:22] And we had a wonderful conversation after that but I dared because I think sometimes I'm in a position that can do that of course. But I would imagine that many of you get frustrated sometimes because you know the changes. You see it coming, you know what you can do and yet
[00:02:38] You may not have all the permissions you need to be able to make it happen. So we're going to go to 3 things. First, what is the role of the AI leader? What, what kind of function do we see them doing in the organization? Do we look at what is an AI first Enterprise? What do we mean by Ani first Enterprise? And the last 1 is, how do we start with that AI driven transformation? What could
[00:03:00] Some ideas to get you to ignite that path As you move forward.
[00:03:05] So let's start with the first 1. What is a nail leader? Well,
[00:03:08] When we did a survey for that, we realized that something we didn't anticipate that 73%. Whose people, whose responsibility is exclusively, AI, nothing else, not CIO. Nothing else are actually reporting to CEOs.
[00:03:24] And mostly it's because of that realization, that AI is 30% technology and 70% something else. And that something else has to do with skills transformation with business transformation and for everything that company it what we see also is that while these people are starting to get that exclusive Mandate of
[00:03:45] Accountability of the value of AI. Within the Enterprise, They are doing all of them certain things in common, they are first really, a responsible for Innovation and value. Meaning that when you start a business case, within the organization from then forward, a lot of that has kpis assigned to it way to measure it and the ability to say whether or not what they are doing, not at scale yet, sometimes is producing value or not. But that's part of the amount to begin with the transformation is also beyond the automation. We've done automation, we know and we still do and it provides value but establishing a relationship between machines and human beings in an organization is very hard to do. And that's what actually most of the agents are doing to
[00:04:30] Today they are not assistance but they are assisting other employees to do their job. They become what we call at Gartner toolmates not teammates because an agent doesn't equal a person but they are working with them to be able to help them to for accomplish tasks. So that transformation Beyond automation is something they have started to be in charge of as well. They are improving AI literacy literacy. And acculturation is a 1 of the critical mandate also in the Enterprise, not just at the productivity level, but the larger level as well and I will come back to that in a minute.
[00:05:04] the AI strategy is the Mandate of the AI leader, and it has to be done in conjunction with many other roles in the organization primarily, if they are not the
[00:05:15] Cdao, sometimes they are or the CDO, which sometimes they are. But if they are not part of that team, they need that team in their Corner. Absolutely, it is an absolute essential condition for their success, but they also need a ciso opinion. They need a software engineering lead opinion. They need the Enterprise architect opinions and then they need the business functions view as well. And then the business units view as well. Those people are able to go transverse in the organization across function and business units, but vertical as well across a technology stack layers, and able to translate that technology stack at the board level. Talking their language all the way down to the developers. That's quite a tall order. That's a big mandate for 1 person but every organization,
[00:06:00] And the 1 we've seen there on the 73%. That's their limit. That's why they have to accomplish. They have to evolve AI competencies as well. And AI competencies are changing regularly as we all seen. Nobody knew where the prompt engineer was 5 years ago.
[00:06:16] And today it's a part of the model to what we need to be able to do most of what's going on in 2 billion price capabilities is also very important and not make it their purview. What AI leaders need to do is orchestrate work of units and rely on other people to be able to build on the execution of what they do. But they are orchestrator facilitators, translators, and that seems to be the common Mandate of most of the people that have exclusively in charge of AI across.
[00:06:45] Organization, we see them doing.
[00:06:47] May push it 1 level further. When we look at high maturity company and medium maturity company, we find actually that they have an AI leader. They have someone who solely responsible the chingle the single, uh, throat to choke, so to speak. They have the person that's accountable for what's going on. Within the Enterprise when it comes to AI in a very, very large. Majority of the cases. Many of them starts with sometimes a double mandate, they are CEO and leader. If they are, organization is large enough and so on and as they move on, they realize the magnitude of the task and the requirement on their skills and they need to move on and name, someone that's going to be solely responsible for it. And that's what we see going on a regular basis. So those
[00:07:30] Number is actually uh, pretty telling when you look at the level of maturity of organizations, Le leveraging Ai and how they move into naming those people in the organization. So what are they doing? What is the thing that they are very focused on?
[00:07:43] That's the part and you may be familiar with that distinction. We do on AI use cases. The different use cases, are something I'm already doing. I'm just doing better. So I'm seeing some productivity level Improvement into what I'm doing. I'm saving time, I'm saving hours of work, I'm automating a few things. In that case, we call that micro Innovation, that's when mostly what people are doing today.
[00:08:06] Extend is looking at the business process and say we need to change that somehow to allow better efficiency or to provide new functionality.
[00:08:15] For our clients, or our employees and really changing the game. And in that case, I'm getting into processes, workflows decision flows and so on, and have the permission to be able to move them along. Very few, practice are changing that as well. Upand is really something that we've never done before. It's the kind of business model where I'm changing a new product and allowing something to happen that I've never happened before. A new completely new kind of process in order to do that. Um, some examples that are part of this, I mentioned yesterday in my presentations, on some of the examples on use case for agents that are mostly in the extent side of things. Anything below that usually requires a lot of changes in the Enterprises me.
[00:09:00] Any organization that stuck on the first 1 even with AI leaders today and there's a good reason for that the CFOs love it.
[00:09:07] Because you can account for all these savings on the quarterly basis. The problem is that they get addicted to it and it never crossed the chasm from the top 1st. But it works on an incremental basis. It works like the CEO told me in the story. I told you we never see the transformation. Well, of course you don't, because you're doing a lot of work, which is very valuable, by the way. But stuck at the first level, you never go down the part of that. Now, this is not 1 or the other or the other usually people that have leaders work into making this a portfolio. So 80% of
[00:09:45] Their use cases might be the first 1 and still is and stay there. 15% on the second, 1 and 5% on the last 1. And if you read the research from net suda, my colleague, who looks at the return on investment on some of these initiatives, you'll see that they measured this differently depending on those layers. They do return an employee on the first layer. So, how much time save, what kind of productivity am I getting at an employee level? And then they look at written on investment class with an investment on the second level and they look at written on future. So more like VC Venture Capital kind of work for the last 1.
[00:10:23] Measuring them equally is not fair because a lot of that is going to depend on how the kpis are being distributed across.
[00:10:30] The initiative that you have on those levels as well.
[00:10:33] We do believe that if you are moving into AI, if you're pushed by your boards, or your executive levels constantly and get the pressure that you need in the I lead it could be someone in the Enterprise who already know and to be honest a lot of cdos and cdos know about AI, you've done it for decades. Most of the value delivered by AI today is delivered by you not buy generative AI
[00:10:56] So, you know this already you have a lot of that knowledge. Now you may need to take exclusively that role as you move forward, as it is becoming really overwhelming to be able to do that, but that's the idea.
[00:11:08] So, what is an AI first Enterprise? Well, for us, it's a deliberate mandate to be able to use
[00:11:15] Use AI for a lot of the initiatives that you have today, which means that when you have that, it doesn't mean you have to. It means you should be considering the technology depending on what you are looking on for the type of processes that you're thinking about changing within an organization. Now, there are 2 types of these processes. There's the productivity side. So, a lot of you today, I'm sure are pressured to use either. Copy lot, Co work or Cloud co-work. Within many people are pushing you to use those kind of techniques to automate at their level at the product TV level, which is fine, but then there is the Enterprise level part as well. AI first things that when you starting to consider to refund Review, 1 of these business processes, you consider how AI can help doing that.
[00:12:00] It doesn't mean it's going to end up doing it, but at least have the initiative to look into that as well. There is actually an old methods that I learned 15 years ago. I'm sure that a lot of you, I've been through it as well. That allow you to redesign some of these processes by looking at the real outcome and that's design thinking
[00:12:18] We forgot about that, but most of that actually will help us look into how AI can help. Also, in the consideration of how the outcome of an application or business process should be looking into and that in that case, you're not just looking at AI as a tool or AI techniques as a set of tools but as an enabler to provide that differentiation to provide that change as well. That is the the deliberate choice to do that and the exploration to do it.
[00:12:45] Which makes it also that kind of mortality.
[00:12:48] Yeah, first also is an idea where that AI literacy I was talking about earlier. It needs to happen very early on in that change also because you're not the only ones when you do design thinking, you're going to have a lot of employees are going to be involved into what you're doing. Sales people, marketing people, production people, manufacturing floor, people and sales that are in the store themselves and so, on many of the of these subject matter experts that are talking to your customer on your YouTube basis are talking to other people outside of the organization. Need to be employed into that. So they need to understand what is the permission level. They are at the facility to explore those opportunities. Again is enabled that those kind of methodologies that are often out.
[00:13:30] Hide or what it is doing and most of that. Again, we've learned our careers.
[00:13:35] Result to pursue change is an important 1. So many of you up to today and everyone on ones that I have are often telling me it's really hard to provide that change and not getting the response. I need, I'm not getting the support. I need from my management to make those things happen. They want the impossible. They think AI is Harry Potter.
[00:13:55] And you have a 1 just to end some pixie dust and poof, it happens, just give it to the agent. What don't they do at themselves automatically? Write the data is perfect. Now we have agents, so nothing has changed. So, most of what's Happening Here is the ability also to have your support on high above and this is why when an AI leader is naming in your organization.
[00:14:15] It's often a signal that top management is on board and you need that to be able to provide those changes without that.
[00:14:22] It's going to be really hard to succeed. It's not impossible, but it's close to that.
[00:14:27] Now, most of that pressure is coming as I mentioned to the top, but it's also coming from the bottom. So you have fear at the bottom and expect over expansion at the top and you're stuck in the middle somewhere, being pressured by both fear. Because you see the headlines 5,000 people replaced by AI, or thanks to or because of AI and most, whether they are not telling you is that they may have got rid of 5,000 people there. But they hired 6,000 on the other side because they are reviewing their strategy but they we we published a note recently on AI as an excuse which is being used on a constantly based
[00:15:00] This is now to review strategies. Now, most of that again, is going into the fact that your top management need to be able to push that forward.
[00:15:08] Now are you looking at the translation you want or the 1 that actually you'll get by default. Well it's going to depend on the kind of questions you're asking yourself when you look into some of that, do you have an opinion about how to re event your Enterprise? You, you do you are looking at this from a very pragmatic perspective you know the quality of your data, you know, sometime what's possible and what's not you know what people are asking you something that it's going to take years with the budget that you have. That's not going to be a realizable. So most of that is something that can you can have as well. Are you at the Liberty to share some of that? Do you have the permission to do that? Do you know, you're not going to just look at a, a barrier. I had a conversation.
[00:15:45] Early on during this conference, with a group, a set of you that were telling me actually that you started to change the word governance to risk management.
[00:15:55] Because governance is you can do that.
[00:15:57] And go and risk manager is more. Well, you can do it, but if you do, that's what's going to happen to you, which is a completely different conversation. So most of that change also is like, can it be shared? Is it evolving? Do you see that mentality evolving? Now we're starting to see that AI is not magic and I believe that a lot of top management are realizing that a lot of money being spent to the extreme sometimes, we've done studies that shows that CEOs. Now are starting to trust more and more. They are CFOs for. Innovation, isn't that scary?
[00:16:27] so, most of what you see happening now is getting to the
[00:16:30] Fact that the culture and the habit and also the experiences are starting to sift through, does it influence investment? Of course it does. But do you have actually the right measures to say how and to which extent and by how much and that's what usually is are bound to be able to do to provide the change. They want to do it. And finally how do the organization react to change? And this need a stability to absorb change, but you need change with 15 to move the organization as well, but it cannot be as agile as it doesn't have a Direction. So their stability is becoming very important as well, but not at the expense of rigidity and most of what we see happening now on that the how the organization react to change does not depend just on an industry or
[00:17:15] How old the company is but often how how your CEO and executive committee behaved and what they are listening to. And that's actually very telling and we see that slightly moving, not always and having talked to some of you. I know how hard it is within your own organization as you move forward. But those are the right questions I believe to ask. When you start to get into that position on being mandated by changing the Enterprise. Again, it's about transformation by being able to do that using the technology.
[00:17:44] We Believe by 2028 and Enterprise at adopt and sustain an AI first strategy. Again it's not for everything you do but it's when it's really appropriate across the organization with achieve a 25% better outcome that computers, that do not and again remember different
[00:18:00] Association happens with the extend, use cases first. And then moving on, the first ones, you'll get the value you will, but it's going to be incremental at the macro level and it's going to keep going that way and feeding your CFO.
[00:18:13] Now, how do you ignite an AI driven transformation? How do you start their many of you may be familiar with our AI ambition radar. It's a mechanism that allow you to talk to your business and map. Your use cases on 2 main Dimensions. 1 on the left is every day. AI things we do on a regular basis productivity use cases on the other side, on the right side of it, it's game-changing things that are going to make a huge difference in the organization. And then on the vertical basis its use cases, you do that are going to have an
[00:18:45] Impact internally for your employees mostly. And then on the top side is, how do you expose some of these use cases outside to your partners, to your customers clients and so on and constituents and most of that, then we plug those uh we map those use cases on that chart. We it allows a conversation between people that are not familiar with the technology. And by the way, the concentric circle is, if you are in the middle, it's very feasible. The feasibility is very high, but as you move to the outside of the feasibility becomes lower, the feasibility can be low because you have compliance to deal with regulations to deal with. You may not be ready for my skills perspective. You may not have used the platform or the technology you need to achieve that use case. So feasibility depends on the lot of these factors.
[00:19:30] S and things that you're allowed to do. Now, we map those use cases on that radar. To prioritize them to have a conversation again with your business leads or subject matter expert leads, and US Technologies can lead that conversation. And you know, what's feasible and not the point of that as you move into that transformation piece, is that, that map that usually was fairly static once you decided, which use cases to look at are changing.
[00:19:57] Things not to be able to move on a quarterly basis to revive some of that on a quarterly basis as well. So for example, something on the back office that was considered to be a little bit far-fetched because Reinventing or redoing processes that the local level for a person might be difficult with Cloud Core work.
[00:20:15] Now, it's not that far-fetched.
[00:20:17] As.
[00:20:24] I am not kidding. She's using cloth core work on regular basis because she automated the way she can do the groceries and see what's left in the fridge and build the recipes when she has tried GPT about these different device that she has in the fridge.
[00:20:37] She used co-work. It's unbelievable. Now she knows what AI is. She knows that a son is doing after 40 years.
[00:20:44] And she thinks I be judging by the way, which is, which is my mom. So, of course, that's but part of that means that what they're trying to make the point, I'm trying to make is that
[00:20:52] Some of what we thought was impossible. Even 6 months ago are very hard to do are becoming achievable, and we need to take that into consideration. So,
[00:21:00] Some of the use cases, we thought might be far-fetched need to move in a center of that Center and move that as a priority, maybe because they are more visible.
[00:21:09] But the converse can be true too.
[00:21:11] Some of the models are not evolving linearly, they evolved in a very Jagged manner, if suddenly opens 4.7 has different capabilities in some of the use cases that 4.5 and it shows in some of the reliability and the accuracy level, we are getting from these models. Then we need to move that from the center a little bit on the side as well to understand that the investment might be higher and not as visible as we thought they were because it's going to be extra harnesses to put around the technology or extra piece of technology for right to be able to do that. So that assess
[00:21:45] Mint has to change on the regular basis and this is what the movement suddenly of that change, is having to adapt and change to those different kind of capabilities. What also changes is the AI literacy piece.
[00:21:58] Because now these new tools are coming on board. We are allowing people to use some of those but they need to be educated at the very minimum at the governance. Level at the beginning, maybe not completely on how to use the tool what to do with it and so on a lot of that can be set as a discovery for the people that you believe can handle the technology but and being able to educate them at first or what, what to do, what to be careful about not to have those agents start to guzzle tons of tokens. For example, you need to be able to educate them at the beginning for that.
[00:22:30] And for that, part of it, it means that that education happen, a different level depending on who you are in the organizations.
[00:22:37] The fact that your CEO is in tragedy, doesn't make him or her an AI expert.
[00:22:43] So most of what's happening in there and the complexity of how these techniques are to be implemented. Has also to be there, it's very different from people that are going to be deploying Ai and programming it as well. And when I mean AI, I don't mean generative AI. I mean, AI as a whole. Okay, rule based systems machine, learning techniques knowledge, graphs. All those kind of techniques that are very reliable and we've done 4 years and decades. So all of that education actually has to be. Also continuous, as I said, the same way that the use cases are changing on a regular basis.
[00:23:15] The way to educate about those techniques are also changing on a regular basis.
[00:23:19] What we found on use cases. And as best practices is that the best way to educate is also via gamification of course, but the ability to be linked to the task and the work that they are doing. So it's not just 1 employee at that level. It's also. What are the in marketing? Are the sales, are they, what are the tasks? They are doing and educating them around that. I give you 1 more around this. That we've learned recently, they are a use case that we've done 1 of our company actually in England here.
[00:23:45] Uh, it's a law firm and what they are doing is that they figured from a productivity perspective. They did an analysis of all the tasks in the organization and then they mapped out. What are the tasks that provide the best business benefits, the growth?
[00:24:00] Part of all she each of these tasks because employees, they don't know if I'm working on something and I use a tool like that and I'm freeing an hour. What do I do with that? Our they get an extra capuccino or do I talk to my colleague, which is good too, by the way. But what do I do with that our well? Now in the AI literacy program, they are teaching people. What are the tasks in their job that contributes to growth. So if you find yourself with half an hour or an hour being freed, this is the task. You should be focusing on and they use that in their AI literacy program because at their level people don't know, they don't have all the information to figure that out so they put that into their, that's why that AI literacy. Part is also changing, it is also something that's moving on in order to do that.
[00:24:43] from the beginning, I've been talking about
[00:24:45] AI maturity. I said the most mature companies. Well, how do you know that? How do you know how mature you are? So we built a maturity model for AI and actually you can take it now online and we call it as an AI score. It's called an AI score. It's fairly comprehensive. I want to warn you right away, it's fairly comprehensive but it leads to an idea around this 7 Dimensions. Now, you may have also to work with some of your colleagues to be able to figure out in some of the areas that you are not really in charge of what's happening. But once you've done, that is several places where we derive, how mature can you be? There are 5 levels for each of those
[00:25:20] once you've done that analysis and look the cross the the maturity level part, you can establish a maturity score and that score will be also across the
[00:25:30] Things. So it's possible that you have very high score on strategy because you've done that for quite a while. But at the same time, on AI data or AI engineering, you might be missing some things as well. Once you have that AI score, the idea for us is to say they are several activities to increase that score if you choose to do. So. And so we be, we believe that building a road map, a real practical road map outside of that maturity score is very important. So when you take the maturity score, it leads you to and gives you a few ideas on what other people are doing. We have some benchmarks behind that, of course and then give you an idea of what are the tasks.
[00:26:06] Now again like AI literacy. Some of those mandates might change depending on the change of your strategy and some of the use
[00:26:15] Cases that you are pursuing. So this is also in motion.
[00:26:19] Nothing is static anymore as these Technologies are changing their rapidly, but at least it gives you a framework to know what am I going to change? Why am I adapting this? Why am I moving to that area? Why am I doing reference architecture? How does ethical and different parts of what we should be doing. Also measures and changes.
[00:26:38] The AI act, the new version has been recently again agreed upon by by by the European committee. So I need that's 1 of the things. Also, for example, that might provide a change that needs also to be reviewed in a use cases that you looked at because it's possible that you might have an impact on what you're looking at. So part of that has to be reflected on the change here as well.
[00:26:59] The.
[00:27:00] Another part of the change is that they have different ways and different Visions on what is to be achieved with those techniques 1 of them, could be to reinvent your operating model in that case, there's a lot of focus on the use cases that are going to be here part of that dark side of that uh of that radar or if your future customer experience. Actually looking at not what you are doing today but how to evolve those practices we play a major role on how you push that forward and there again on be able to expand your business model. Most of the use cases are to belong to that side of the part of of the radar where you're going to be able to excite a lot of those. And if those dots are too much on the inside of the quadrant, someone else is doing it. That's not where you're going to get the differentiation.
[00:27:45] Those zones the Red Zone, the yellow zone, and the green zones are very daring role and zones. It depends on how high your AI maturity is to undertake the outside of the radar. Also, but depending on your goals on what you're looking for here, those are very important to keep track of
[00:28:03] I have many organization have, for example, the expanded business model of future customer experience in mind, and when we map their use cases, we find ourself on operating model optimization.
[00:28:13] Depending on the risk level that you can accept within the organization, those are very important as well.
[00:28:19] If you recommendations.
[00:28:21] To be an AI first Enterprise. Once again is not something that's a mandate but it's something that you should be looking into as how do we make sure we understand.
[00:28:30] Understand the possibility of using those techniques in most of the things that we are doing.
[00:28:36] Most of what we're looking as well, is that, if you don't have 1, someone has to be in charge, we wrote a note called your AI need a boss and most of that doesn't mean again, that person is in charge of everything, but it means it, that person is a coordinator. An orchestrator of what's happening within the organization. Most of you came to me this week so far with governance in mind.
[00:28:57] Sorry risk management in mind. So, most of that has to be done at some kind of a central level somewhere. Someone has to be accountable somewhere as well, and if its 5 people then, nobody's accountable.
[00:29:09] the leadership gaps also are very important here, leadership, and part of that, like I said how they are as the
[00:29:15] Come from the top and the idea was behind that. Also, it is also a lei lead part of what we are being able to do here. The culture part of it comes with the literacy and it is a very important part to do on a continuous basis. It's not a 1-off and it doesn't have to be just between lunch. And finally, the recalibrating that strategy is important. Again, I think the central message here is that
[00:29:37] AI first is not a mandate, it's a permission to transform.
[00:29:42] And that part of it is very important as well.
[00:29:45] I know that the most precious commodity you have is your time and I'm very grateful that you gave me some of it today and come here to spend it with me. So thank you very much for your attention and welcome to the conference.
