[00:00:04] Thank you very much for coming. And I hope this presentation will be thought-provoking and because it will be more reflective and contemplative around the future of data science where we are now and what we should be doing with data science in our organizations,
[00:00:26] Now the presentation was kind of sparked by a lot of debate and discussion around. What's the future of what's the purpose of data science in the world of AI? Maybe a data scientists are not needed anymore. Just like with other roles software Engineers, maybe they're going away.
[00:00:45] So data scientists of of kind of getting a bit of a raw and a rough deal uh at the moment.
[00:00:51] And together with that, there was also, uh, something which, uh, sparked also my attention during the last, uh, general election or any time, there's an election, really? But last year, there was a headline in the New York Times which, uh, pointed to 1 of the, uh, foremost election, forecasters here in the UK. And the headline was the man, everyone trusts on UK election night.
[00:01:18] So the job of the forecaster is somewhat like the job of the data scientist. So it kind of got me thinking as to is the data science organization in your Enterprises in all
[00:01:30] Enterprises, are they the units? The team.
[00:01:34] That person that you trust when it comes to making Enterprise or strategic decisions.
[00:01:40] And I think, in most cases that hasn't quite been the case.
[00:01:44] So this is going to try and make that case for why that that should happen. And uh we also trying to try and look at what the future may hold for data science as well.
[00:01:55] So we did a survey um, last year about 4 data, science and analytics leaders. And we asked them about their Readiness to adopt Ai and ask them about their performance and how they felt they were doing.
[00:02:09] so, we found 1 interesting statistic which was that those data science teams, that had
[00:02:15] Close alignment with their business units. Were 7 times more likely to be prepared for AI disruption.
[00:02:22] Now this is on the core tenets, the core pillars of data science which is to have business engagement, which is to be with the business and to understand requirements, understand, the opportunities to be able to translate those opportunities into 4, into models into things, which can be predicted
[00:02:44] So this comes as as no surprise, but I think in a lot of cases, what I'm seeing in my discussions, over the last 2 Days in particular, is that there is a lot of worry or anxiety about how business will adopt AI, will it?
[00:03:00] Be fit for purpose. Will there be 2? High expectation. So all of these things are a result of I think losing that connection, which data scientists naturally should bring
[00:03:15] So we're going to look at 3 main things and 3 main pillars here, we're going to go through what a data science, uh, how the data Science Drive decision making, what does an active data science? Operation actually look like and what you should be doing with data science and why it's still relevant or even more relevant in this era of AI, um, that we are in.
[00:03:40] So let's look at what data science really looks like and to start off with I think.
[00:03:45] We need to get some things. Clear some definitions clear because there's some confusion around analytics data science and Ai. And how do they play together? So I'm going to try and uh make it make it simple here.
[00:03:58] So if you think about AI, so AI analytics and bi. So analytics is all about measurement. It's about trying to be good at measuring as many things as possible about your organization. Everything that comes in everything that is done. In sight, the organization, everything that goes out. How customers behave, how things move across different locations, anything that you can measure that is what analytics is really for. And when you measure things, then you want to
[00:04:30] Also, measure the impact of things and we want to try and get to Leading indicators of success.
[00:04:37] So that's what analytics is at it. Fundamentally, um, All About. So that then ties into data science because data science is now around understanding why things happen understanding, why the leading indicators are leading indicators and data science is as the name suggests, it's a science. So what do you do when you are doing science, you do experiments. So data science is experiment driven. And as I think many of you, uh, would have done when you were at school, uh, you had the classic kind of science, experiment checklist which you will have to go through. So you have to make sure you have the AIM, the hypothesis, the
[00:05:15] Method, the evaluation and then the conclusion.
[00:05:18] And that is the same with data science. It's all about generating hypotheses, all about generating possible research ideas. And Pathways why does this happen? Why is this Behavior common? Why is this this thing? Sell more than anything else. What should we be doing in the next 5 months, 6 months, 10 months. It's all about trying to generate as many hypotheses as possible.
[00:05:39] And then of course to when you do that, you will be also building predictive models in order to understand what the links are between those different attributes. And that's where AI then comes in, which is where you take a model, which a data scientist or a data science team may have built and now you embed it into an application or you make it.
[00:06:00] Operational that is where that becomes something which you could call an AI system or an AI model. So all of these things are interlinked and they all feed off each other and they are all complimentary. So nothing really takes away from any other piece or any other part and of course there are composable. So you put these things together. Good analytics. Operation will feed the data, scientists good data and scientists will feed good, AI delivery and AI models.
[00:06:31] So what organizations want to do what they want to do with with data science? Well of course it is most famously known for making predictions. You want to predict things about risk? You're going to predict things about cost predicting.
[00:06:45] About failure predict things about churn about how things move and behave, Etc, but you don't just want to finish at prediction. This is where a lot of, uh, companies organizations. Sometimes go wrong in that they leave a predictive model, just at the predictive stage and you have a prediction, which is usually a probability of some of some sort of some kind.
[00:07:06] But what you want to do is to actually take it further and then make some kind of decision or prescription based on that prediction. So if we know that this is likely to happen, then what should we do?
[00:07:20] So if we know uh, what's going to happen with uh, with Supply volatility, how should we set up our pricing? What should the optimal price? Actually be given our logistic, uh,
[00:07:30] Concerns, what should the best route be? How when should we schedule maintenance? Given that? We have a model for predicting, uh, failures of our assets or components. So it's all about trying to be good at prediction and then taking the next step and trying to also have the prescription as well. Now, of course AI can help. Uh, in doing this and models and llms and agents can be also very good at doing these things.
[00:07:55] But 1 thing that they can't really replace at the moment is thinking through how decisions are actually made.
[00:08:04] So, if you think about, how would you structure any 1 of these hypotheses? How do you structure? Anyone of these types of Investigations? Well, you can use something like a decision.
[00:08:15] Map.
[00:08:15] So a decision map is where you can uh take a question or take an experiment that you want to test like something you have a problem, like some the supplier is too costly.
[00:08:25] Now you want to investigate what are the options, what should we do about that? And what analytics and what data science techniques could we use in order to answer that question to solve that problem?
[00:08:36] So then you might do a cost benefit analysis um to start off with and then you might look at the the costs on 1 side and then more around the quality and performance of the other side and you may decide that you only want to take 1 of those branches to look at and the cost side. May not be important for now, uh, for some reason. But then on the performance side, then you look at then 2 other options. So then you look at the D affect.
[00:09:00] Decorate and then you look at on time delivery for example. And then looking at based on that performance, now you make the decision to switch to another supplier in this case. So this mapping out of this kind of analysis in order to get to a conclusion is something which is very specific for individual organizations and how they want to think about the decisions they make and a generic AI tool or a generic kind of code assistant um or an agent will be able to do these individual pieces of analysis but very often the whole uh decision flow is something which a data scientist or someone with that expertise needs to put into practice for the AI to work.
[00:09:45] And there's another thing which is very hard for AI to replicate which is the real art of data science which is the communication aspect.
[00:09:56] So I'm not sure about uh, people here in the room, but I'm sure if you have an AI generated report of some kind and it has uh, statistics that it has charts and it has some kind of commentary and narrative, then that's all all well and good. But if somebody's actually presenting that to you and actually giving you the the real kind of narrative behind it. Then there's always more engaging than just reading something, which is, which is static. So that's why within data science, you have this concept of a data story, so a data story
[00:10:30] Is a set of analyses, which is bounded by a narrative.
[00:10:35] And the more engaging you can make that narrative, the more impactful those insights will be and hopefully then decisions will be made.
[00:10:44] I'm not sure if uh, how many of you, uh, in the UK based and you might have seen, um, on Sky News. There is Ed Conway, who is a very, uh, good data Storyteller. So he brings up analyses and charts and visuals to explain a specific topic or issue of the day and he doesn't go into what decisions could be made. But he does a very good job at presenting the facts and the figures in a way which is accessible to many different types of people.
[00:11:10] so here's a like a classic, um, data story if you like so you have an
[00:11:15] Position, you have a beginning and then you have some kind of positive things happening. This was going fine but then you have some event or something that happened whereby after that point things started to decline and now you're in a situation where decision needs to be made. Um and those are possible possible scenarios which you could look at
[00:11:35] So here's an example, which might be um, applied in let's say the realm of of Finance. So you always start a good Story Once Upon a Time. So once upon a time our Revenue was growing steadily or everything was was fine. Our CA kpis were performing, um, everything was great. Um, but then something happened, um, and there was a change in the macroeconomic environment. Let's say, so,
[00:12:00] That that changed and there were some then changing customer Behavior. So what happened was, people started to buy different types of products or maybe the mix of products was uh, was not aligned to what clients wanted.
[00:12:12] Um, so this is all based on analysis. This is all based on the historic, uh, kind of process that you would go through. And then you reach a climax here at a point, which is because of that our product mix or the categories of things that we had were poorly aligned, that's your kind of climax. And then, from there you go into. Well, actually, after that, things started to go a bit, uh, a bit bad. So then because of that, uh, there was less, uh, Effectiveness in our marketing, and in the ROI, that we were putting inside our uh, Communications and messaging. So we're now at this decision point
[00:12:45] Point where we need to do something in order to influence our revenue or reduce our cost, or our share price or whatever it may be.
[00:12:54] So you come up with this to this point and now the decision maker or the stakeholder is. Now engaged now has the full facts behind them to be able to make a decision.
[00:13:04] And so this is also something, which is very hard to replicate end to end with AI. You need to have somebody who has an orchestrator data scientist, who is doing and driving the analysis to get to this this point.
[00:13:19] So that's what data science should be doing. It should be looking at business problems, looking at testing hypotheses and then presenting them back in the in the
[00:13:30] Which is easily understood with data storytelling which could be automated, but also with that human element and human aspect as well.
[00:13:40] So that's the the first piece. So how would you actually make that operation or what does that look like? How do how do you make this? This kind of work in an Enterprise environment?
[00:13:50] So we're going to look at some aspects which make up a good data science team.
[00:13:55] So because data science is experiment, driven, it is fundamentally agile. So that means it needs to be value driven. You need to look at what the business priorities are, what the objectives are and those are things which are put in front and center. So if you imagine, uh, a a kind of, uh, allow if you like a research lab, where you're taking in different types of
[00:14:15] Of issues from the business and now you're trying to sort them into different categories. Um and now you're trying to align them to how which ones are more valuable and more impactful to then work on.
[00:14:25] Its explorative and it's applied. So you can't apply the same types of delivery strategies that you have with other projects to data science. You need to allow for Innovation. You need to allow for things to to fail. You need to allow for things to develop and evolve as you're producing more insight as you produce more analysis.
[00:14:43] And it's also collaborative. So it needs to have that business, stakeholder engagement with the technical teams with the data scientists who are the bridge between, uh, the technical and the business side, as well. So fundamentally all of these things, mean that data science is agile.
[00:15:00] And where does the link to uh AI come into this? Well, if you think about the activities in the cycles that happen in a data science lab, then you have over on, uh, on the left hand side, a typical kind of data science process, which is well, understood. You take a business problem or many problems. You go through some exploratory data analysis, you look at some insights. So some insight generation and then you might have a story at the end of it which tells what could happen in possible scenarios and then what you want to decide is maybe now we have, we understand how our customers behave or we understand something about what is happening in our business or operations. And now we want to take that forward as a model which can be operationalized. So now, when you start that other cycle of innovation that
[00:15:45] That is where then you start using different, uh, types of techniques. That's where you can also bring in, uh, the application developers, that's when you can bring the Ops processes and that cycle, then builds, and then MVM, which is the minimum viable model. And then a minimum viable product at the end of it. So, you have different types of methodologies applied to different, uh, stages in this this cycle.
[00:16:10] And who are the people that are involved in this? Well there are several uh main uh figures that you need. 1 of those is what we call a data and analytics translator. So not a very cool name, I'm not sure anyone would want to be called that, uh, but their job is to be that go-between between the, the business side and the
[00:16:30] Technical side looking for the opportunities, where could we actually Implement, uh, some types of of hypotheses and testing? And the same thing is true for AI as well. In the AI side, there's also this Gap that exists where things are being delivered, they're being put into that the hands of people, but they're not really being adopted or if they are adopted they're adopted in the wrong way so this can also apply for your AI strategy in your AI rollout, rollouts as well as uh for data science as well.
[00:16:56] So you might have also a data science lead in Innovation lead um and and they're talking also to The Domain experts as well and then you have the core kind of people who are doing the actual work and the actual delivery of data scientists with data Engineers, working, very closely together and then some organizations actually have data storytellers.
[00:17:15] As roles or people who can actually present and communicate. But you don't need to have these as separate roles you can have these as skills which some people take on, or some people have in order to run this as uh, as a lab and as a unit and as a team,
[00:17:32] So, that's the people that are that are involved and what we want to do is we've said before was to try and exploit the strengths of the different techniques that are available to us, and we'll come back to that theme as well. Which is that? Sometimes we only think about AI as generative, AI. We only think about doing prediction as being just machine learning. But actually, there are a number of different techniques at our disposal, which we should be using, and utilizing and not
[00:18:00] Just trying to throw the same technique or the same technology at every problem.
[00:18:04] So you can the nature of the problem that you have that uh that determines what type of technique you might want to use. So it might be about predictions, it might be about classification, it could be forecasting and time series it could be something around simulation. So you want to get some some forecasts or you want to be able to look at probability distribution for example. And then after that, then you want to add the prescription strength in there as well. So that could be something based on rules could be something based around the optimization. So for example, you might do a forecast of what might happen in the future and then based on all those different forecasts, you can then have an optimization, which would be able to set.
[00:18:45] The right price for example, or for example, in a, in a reservoir, your forecasting, rainfall, your forecasting demand. And then you're looking at optimization as to how much water to take out from a reservoir. Power supply is the same thing. So you can combine the strengths of these different types of techniques and uh, build build them into a single solution. And, of course, the some of these techniques are very, uh, complex, uh, to get, uh, to get experience with. So again, AI can help here in the individual framing, or the individual delivery of these, um, Solutions, but making sure that you do have someone, who knows what the respective strengths are of these different techniques.
[00:19:25] So, determine which approach to use. You could use, you could combine these things together. This is what we call composite AI.
[00:19:30] So Compass AI is about taking and using different techniques together, not just relying on 1 single technique and that gives you a broader set of capabilities and also often more accurate, uh, predictions and results. So you could go for predictions and rules where you're leveraging existing predictive models. But then when a model gives you a prediction. Now, you set a threshold. If it's a brother threshold, we do this. If it's below a threshold, we do that. So that's combining rules with predictions. As I said, you could have forecasting with optimization you presenting force and then trying to optimize the, uh, single output at the end or you could have simulation with optimization. So you're like in the forecasting or election scenario, you're looking at many, many different simulations. You're running simulations, thousands and thousands of times.
[00:20:15] And then you're picking from that as to what the most likely outcome will be. And that is a political applicable in many, Enterprise problems, and contexts as well.
[00:20:26] So we've gone over the, the approach side, we've gone over the delivery side. Now, let's look at what should we be doing with data science and how to make this kind of really, uh, real. So, what are the problems that you can be, uh, working on? What are the solutions that can be delivered? They can come at a different categories. But here's 3 main categories. There's customer intimacy. So how can you acquire, how can you grow? How can you retain? What about updates and across cell across selling, Etc, marketing. There's lots of use cases their sales as well. Lots of use cases, typical use cases, operational excellence within a company with
[00:21:00] Then organization. How do you maximize things, maintain things? Predictive maintenance, all these types of optimization, algorithms can be run for many different types of, of use cases, and then trying to find the the optimum thing as well to do. So looking at behavioral analysis signals around threat detection in cyber security or within supply chain. All of these things can be done with a good set of data science techniques at your disposal,
[00:21:27] So once again a reminder that AI is not just machine learning and it's not just generative AI. So we do go through these phases where 1 thing is set to mean AI. So when everyone says AI, now everyone means generative Ai and when everyone said AI at 5 years ago, everyone met machine learning but that's they are not the only,
[00:21:45] Techniques available. You can use simulation optimization logic, based symbolic AI as well, is making a return with knowledge graphs ontologies. I'm sure you've heard about all of those over the last couple of days. So the the forward path, uh, the future. If you like will be based around combining the best of the, the neuro neuro world, or the machine learning world with the symbolic, uh, side as well. So, the earlier, you can get experience with that the more prepared you'll be for when that disruption actually happens.
[00:22:17] And to the kind of finish up with. There's some examples here of how you can combine, or how you can use different types of techniques for different types of situations. So, we call this our AI zodiac because of the
[00:22:30] Way in which you can arrange these techniques to to kind of give a, a star shape. Um, so on the y-axis, you have the, um, symbolic side. So how symbolic is the technique that you have? Uh, is it data driven or data driven, or is it more symbolic side? And then of course, the x-axis you have, is it a mainstream technique? Or is it more emerging? So for this example, in segmentation classification, you could choose to use a rule-based system or machine learning or ensembles or any of these different techniques in combination as well as individually as well. The same thing goes for anomaly detection, so you can also use rule systems for anomaly detection with machine learning, uh, graph techniques, deep learning. These can be applicable for different situations.
[00:23:12] And here, there's a couple of more so prediction and forecasting.
[00:23:15] Again, different types of techniques available at your disposal and it's really the data scientist who is in the best position to determine what type of technique should be used for delivering AI to an organization. So it shouldn't always be that an llm is used at every time you want to do something. Um and a data scientist, can uh really uh intuitively recommend and understand what is actually needed in a specific situation. So don't go running, all just to LMS just because um they're the latest greatest thing.
[00:23:44] And finally, recommendation, recommendation is been around, uh, for for a while, and the techniques have evolved. And now we're seeing, uh, more machine learning and more graph-based techniques for doing, uh, recommendation, as well. So, if you're not utilizing the standard techniques already, for these types of
[00:24:00] Things then look at those first before you jump to trying to deliver things with agents or with uh with llm. So you will find it will be a lot easier and a lot more straight forward.
[00:24:10] And then finding optimization and planning. We've talked about, there's many different types of optimization, um, uh, products out there and algorithms that you can use. There's your negative genetic algorithms, uh, there's other types of of rules-based systems as well. Um, but they all are there and have not really changed over the last, you know, 30, 40 years, they've been around for a long time. So use the things which have been tried and tested before you jump to the uh shiny new object.
[00:24:35] So if I need some recommendations here so this is how you should run your data science practice, think about how you can make them The Trusted Center for decision-making.
[00:24:45] So, how do you capture business problems? Look at the the small ones first, and then expand onto the biggest strategic, um, things which you need to decide upon, look at your data science skills. And the Ambitions, there are usually kind of 2 routes that are data scientists might take if they're not doing core data. Science 1 is to go into AI engineering which is which is perfectly fine. The other is to be more business-oriented, maybe become a product owner or someone who is engaging with the business understands the business as well. Look at the data sources and the quality that you have a look at the breadth and depth of techniques. Don't just throw everything into 1, uh, bucket. Um, don't see. Generative AI is the only thing that you can use and be prepared, um, for challenges when it comes to bringing this the this type of working model inside. Your
[00:25:30] Organization groups, people are not really used to having these types, um, of activities taking place and this type of research, uh, way of doing things can be alien to a lot of organizations.
[00:25:42] So I hope that is giving you some insight into why I think the future of data science is bright and why it is as important as ever in the world of AI and we have some more recommended research for you to look at. Um, but with that I'd like to thank you once again for staying till The Bitter End and thank you again for your time.