[00:00:04] Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
[00:00:06] Day 2. I heard that the uh the keynote this morning was pretty inspirational. Do you guys agree?
[00:00:13] Yeah, good.
[00:00:15] Very good. Unfortunately, you know, they, you probably don't know this, uh, Gartner analyst can't attend the Keynotes, we reserve those seats for you all. Uh, so I'm sure it was great. Maybe I'll catch the recording.
[00:00:24] Um, not a lot of folks know this about me, but 1 of my favorite things to do is to travel and actually it originated uh, here in London. Um, growing up my granddad would come here for conferences every year. And so while he was at conferences, I'd read the underground all over the place, uh, we stayed near Pimlico, Pimlico and dolphin house.
[00:00:45] And got to go to Wimbleton. Uh visit all the museums had a great time.
[00:00:49] Uh, but nonetheless, uh, 1 of the things that I like to do is, I like to travel whether it's long, haul international travel, um, or, you know, just simply packing up, uh, the wife and kids in the car and going to the beach for the weekend. I like getting out stepping away from the computer because work life balance is important to me because research says that if you have good work, life balance then you're able to be a better employee.
[00:01:14] Husband and father.
[00:01:16] And so, naturally, while I'm on these restful vacations, I find myself wide awake at night thinking about data governance.
[00:01:25] Thinking about questions. Like why don't they see how important data governance is?
[00:01:30] How do I organize governance within my organization?
[00:01:35] What should I do about AI governance and how do I position myself and my team to help?
[00:01:42] What is unstructured data and how do I manage it?
[00:01:46] And finally,
[00:01:47] Do I need tools? And if so, how many and which tools should I be considering?
[00:01:54] So if you have these thoughts uh You Are Not Alone. According to a recent Gartner survey uh out of everything here on the left. Uh designing and managing DNA. Governance, policies was ranked the lowest in DNA's leaders Comfort level and the ability to execute
[00:02:13] so much, so that more
[00:02:15] More organizations feel like they're comfortable managing and automating data science and machine learning model pipelines. Uh, then building policies for data governance.
[00:02:27] Data governance is hard and it's about people. It's about process and it's about culture.
[00:02:32] And so this isn't surprising data governance or excuse me, Gartner defines data governance as a specification of decision rights and an accountability framework to ensure the appropriate behavior and the valuation.
[00:02:45] Creation consumption and control of data and analytics. And so essentially what data governance is data. Governance is about defining what we're going to build, how it needs to look and how we're able to use.
[00:03:00] Now, there's a little bit of a debate is governance about policy setting and rules and enforcement or at its core. Is it really about leadership?
[00:03:10] And what's been really interesting to me. Just this is my first time at the London conference, I've gone to a number of the other conferences. What's interesting to me just in my 1-on-1, conversations is how advanced the Europeans are with governance compared to certainly the Americans um, in other regions of the world. So, I think that you guys have a really good handle on governance and processes and policies and standards, but I think that there is, there is a leadership component, in an inspiration and a telling component uh, to it as well. You know, deciding what we're going to build, how we're going to communicate that and how we're going to translate those requirements into Tech.
[00:03:45] Technical Solutions.
[00:03:47] So our 5 things are these? Why don't they see how important governance is? How do I organize governance? Says supports our needs. How do I approach AI governance? What to do about? Unstructured data and do I need tools and if so which tools
[00:04:04] As a gardener analysts, uh, every year I have, the opportunity to talk to hundreds of clients. So in total, I've talked to thousands of clients, both on the technology side and on the business side and on the tech. And on the technology side, I hear very familiar. Stories stories, like what do you think of my policy? Um, how many policies do I need to create? Have I appropriately captured all of the roles? How is the technical solution of my architecture, right?
[00:04:30] These are the questions that the technology folks are asking themselves about governance.
[00:04:35] Whereas on the right hand side, what the Business Leaders are thinking about is, I simply don't have time, uh, to deal with this. Another meeting another governance committee. Another policy that I'm probably not going to follow and maybe I'll get audited on, but I can probably explain away.
[00:04:52] Uh, and even if I did have access to the data, to understand, uh, and fix data quality rules or excuse me, I don't even have access to the data and the first place in the data, Lakehouse to see what data of mine is in there, and what its relative quality is.
[00:05:08] And can't you guys just kind of write some SQL and clean it up for me.
[00:05:14] and,
[00:05:15] Of course, uh, let's just use AI to figure it out. What AI tool can I plug in to my tech stack that will understand my business and clean up my data?
[00:05:25] So there's a fundamental disconnect between how we're thinking about or how it is thinking about data governance, and how the business is thinking about it.
[00:05:34] And 1 of my favorite things to say is this, it's kind of borrowing from the movie, uh, Fight Club, right? The first rule of data governance is to not talk about data governance, right? Um, in order to do governance, well we need to fundamentally change the way that we think and feel and communicate communicate about data governance.
[00:05:56] so, how to do that first, if you have
[00:06:00] If you're a publicly traded company, um, and even if you're not likely you have internal, uh, strategic plans, read the annual report. Uh, and in the annual report, there are 3 key sections to pay attention to, uh, first is Management's narrative on operations. Then you have a, you have a risks and controls section and as well as a financial summary overview of financial performance overview. These 3 sections are usually in the first third of the annual report and that's a couple hundred page document. Usually. Within the first third of that report is going to tell you a lot about how the business is performing, how the leadership within the business thinks that they're performing and what they plan to do to improve it. So read your annual report and, uh, you know, maybe even put it into an llm.
[00:06:45] And ask the LM to come up with 15, different use cases, in which we could improve company performance using data and analytics, right? That's a good place to start.
[00:06:53] So once we've identified and prioritized, our use cases based off of the annual report, what we need to do is we need to connect. Those use cases to Core Business processes. Now most organizations, uh, all organizations have Core Business processes. Um, most organizations can bucket it into like 8 or 9 different core processes. Things like order to Cache, uh, procure to pay record to report concept to product, right? And so these are Core Business processes. That almost all organizations will operate
[00:07:26] and so, once we know the core processes that are within our scope
[00:07:30] uh, what we can do is we can start thinking about
[00:07:33] uh, which specific data elements is common or which data elements are common and critical across those processes. And the and to give you a hint, essentially, it's going to be customer and product, uh, 9 times out of 10, maybe supplier or materials or parts, but you will have customer and product data. That is used across organizational processes.
[00:07:56] Of that customer data. We want to focus on just a subset and actually, we're going to talk about that. I think on the next slide. So once we are able to connect our business, uh, our business value proposition with our Core Business processes and our specific critical data Elements which typically constitute customer.
[00:08:15] And master. We're able to better connect our data and business data quality or or business data quality with our objectives.
[00:08:24] And as we are able to do that, we're able to align and communicate more effectively across a broader set of stakeholders. So no longer is data quality simply just interested it no longer are you know the report developers or maybe a Frontline manager interested in data quality. Now we're communicating directly to the C Suite.
[00:08:45] I'm going to give you an example here of this on the next slide. So an example of this looks like this by year end, we want to increase Revenue by 3%.
[00:08:54] For by incre by improving customer service. So, our goal is to increase Revenue, uh,
[00:09:00] By 3% by improving customer service. And oh by the way, increasing Revenue I think is 1 of the strongest value propositions generally you have increased Revenue, improve efficiency and decrease risk, right? Um I think that I think that Revenue wins out more often than risk in most scenarios in efficiency plays are okay too. Just avoid efficiency plays where people are involved. Uh, because particularly early on, when we're starting governance initiatives, we want engagement, and most organizations, and most people within organizations can get behind Revenue, generating use cases. So, anyways, we want to increase Revenue by 3% by improving customer service, and we're going to focus on the order to cash process and improving customer responsiveness from 90 to 96.
[00:09:45] Percent.
[00:09:46] And we're going to measure that by our order fill rate, and our order. Fill rate is calculated by the number of orders. Filled correctly, divided by the total number of orders. And in order to accurately measure this in meaningfully improve it, uh, we're going to focus on some customer and product Master data, along with some application, specific customer and product data along with order quantity, and some transactional information as well.
[00:10:12] And it's really important actually that we differentiate between Master data application, data and transactional. Data Master data is the smallest. Least number of attributes that are used across every application or majority of applications in your Enterprise.
[00:10:28] That is core data that.
[00:10:30] Coordinator that we must focus on. And actually if you're here for the previous conversation uh Master data and entity resolution is a critical precursor to being able to build agent to agent processes.
[00:10:42] So this is a good example of how to tell a compelling story for data and analytics and get people to care.
[00:10:49] Okay, so action. 1 always aligned data governance with business value. The first rule of data governance is, do not talk about data governance.
[00:10:58] Number 2, how do we organize our governance that supports our needs?
[00:11:04] most organizations have more silos and I tailored this for here, most organizations have more silos than the support of Tilbury in Essex, uh, or
[00:11:15] For the state of Iowa in the United States. And so when most governance leaders look out at their organization, they see all of these silos. They naturally respond with wanting to control the situation. I'm going to develop policies and councils. I'm going to nominate data owners and data stewards and I'm going to tell them what to do in policy. And then I'm going to enforce it.
[00:11:35] Uh, the challenge with that, is it limits our options for how to get things done in our organization. If we take that approach this command and control approach, we're missing out on a number of other options such as focusing on outcomes, focusing on agility and focusing on Automation. And so Gardner, has the Adaptive data governance model that was authored by Saul Judah a number of years ago and
[00:12:00] I think it I think it perfectly encapsulates, how to think about governance in governance, we want options control is 1 option and I think that it's applicable in cases of Master data in in some cases, but more often than not, we're going to find more opportunities to engage a broader audience with outcomes agility and automation.
[00:12:21] The way to do that is with a Federated. Uh governance model Hub, and spoke model, which I'm sure that uh many of you have um, have thought about in our implementing within your organization here, I just want to call out 1 Thing, the centralized hubs, set, strategic Direction, standards and core platforms. And what I mean by that is strategic direction, is the prioritized set of use cases. The standard is that we're going to have a standard where all
[00:12:45] Of our data and analytics work is tied to a demonstrable revenue generating activity. This is the standard if I was going to create a policy that would be the first policy that I created, all of our work will be tied to, to business value, to, to revenue revenue, generating activities.
[00:12:59] So the heavens book model is a is a good method and as we use this model, what we'll find is that governance and stewardship naturally exists within our organization. So rather than having data owners and data stewards and data custodians, what I advocate for is a producer consumer model, right? My consumer, my primary consumer is usually Finance. Uh, identify and prioritize which products I'm going to build. They Define what the core metrics mean within that product and how the quality expectations are or what the quality.
[00:13:30] Expectations are of that product, My Consumer is defining the requirements. My producers are helping me understand how the data was captured in the first place. Prioritizing data quality at the source so shifting quality left and making data risk determinations.
[00:13:45] There's a producer consumer relationship that we need to Foster in the organization because most analytics use cases have a 1 to many relationship, right? There's 1 primary consumer most of the time and there are multiple producers and in between you have application development and data and analytics engineering and I won't go through all of it. But what I want to highlight here is that the government as a governance leader, what you want to avoid is you want to avoid a situation where data quality errors are found in the by the data and Analytics.
[00:14:15] Team and you are responsible for fixing those errors.
[00:14:19] We don't want to get in the middle of that work. What we want is we want the consuming data stewards the consumers to communicate to the producers, the importance of their use case and why the producers need to make their change. And so in reality what this means is a CFO is communicating to the chief marketing officer or the chief sales officer. Hey, we're not able to execute on this project or I'm not able to accurately measure Revenue because of these deficiencies. Can you either change your business process or prioritize and enhancement to your business application? So that we can fix that error, rather than governance just going with a, a spreadsheet and saying, hey, like go through the spreadsheet and fix all these errors for me,
[00:14:58] So, to Purser.
[00:15:00] 2 more models. We want to uh, Foster.
[00:15:02] So how do we organize data governance? Well instead of command and control think of multiple options, outcomes agility and automation
[00:15:14] We use a Federated approach and we use the natural responsibilities and talent within our organization. And we align that with the data life cycle creation capture store, and transform and use.
[00:15:31] Number 2, use a hub and spoke model to enable adaptive data governance.
[00:15:37] Number 3. How do I approach AI? Governance. So AI governance Ai and AI governance have certainly taken
[00:15:45] Center stage. And everyone wants to talk about Ai and how to govern it, and how it relates to data, governance, and it's reasonable for all of us to be looking at this and thinking, hey, this is something that I kind of want to get on board too, right. Uh, and I want to lead AI governance and I want to be involved with this, but as we move forward, we risk running off. We risk running off of 1 platform too quickly onto another platform and following into the gap.
[00:16:13] So DNA governance leaders have an opportunity.
[00:16:17] but,
[00:16:18] So DNA governance have leaders have an opportunity. There is a clear and Rising imperative for DNA governance leaders to proactively engage in DNA or an AI governance. And I have a set of survey slides and
[00:16:30] Couple slides that are going to kind of demonstrate this how how DNA governance leaders are engaging other business units and other functions on AI related initiatives.
[00:16:39] But but DNA governance has typically struggled with the development of operating models and promoting a governance structure or culture and generating support. So, essentially we have this wonderful opportunity in front of us, but we haven't really done a very good job to date. And so, how do we kind of reconcile it? How do I? I, I want to avoid leaving uh, fleeing data governance, towards AI governance, um, and kind of creating a number of the same issues that we had in the past,
[00:17:11] so, with the survey data says is, this is
[00:17:15] And this is the bad news. The bad news. First, a recent Gartner study found that only 37% of respondents Define the Mandate and scope of their DNA governance program
[00:17:27] And this limits, their ability to discern the differences in scope between DNA governance AI governance and other organizational governance mechanisms. So we have not done a particularly great job of figuring out how we fit within the organization. And my answer to this is, is here, is generally. There are 2 ways to fit into fit DNA, governance into an organization. I can either embed myself within the data engineering team and like the data platform team and try to create a data product organization, right?
[00:18:00] Where I'm enforcing governance within the data Lake, uh, through data product management, right? So that's kind of Option 1. That's the offensive model. The other option is to move towards more of a risk governance and compliance role. Where, in that role I am focused on developing policy, standards and procedures. But I have the backing of audit that will go in and audit the business, uh, against my policy seniors procedures. So anyways, 30% 37% report that they have a good mandate in scope
[00:18:31] Uh, 34% report that they are able to tie DNA governance initiatives to outcomes and business values.
[00:18:40] Business value and 26% report that they've done a good job with culture.
[00:18:45] And communication.
[00:18:47] The good news.
[00:18:49] The good news is across all internal functions. DNA governance, leaders are having more conversations and more in-depth conversations about Ai and how to govern it. And this is a really important opportunity to capitalize on both to move in to something new, and learn a new discipline. Um, but also to refine and redefine, uh, DNA governance and how it relates to AI governance,
[00:19:17] A big part of doing that is kind of Shifting The Narrative away from command and control into adaptive a more adaptive data governance program.
[00:19:27] So with the maturity DNA governance model organ.
[00:19:30] Ations are a lot less likely to face duplicated efforts, unmanaged risks, or ongoing organizational tensions about who is responsible for risks from Ai and DNA.
[00:19:45] Overall.
[00:19:46] What we find?
[00:19:48] Across all across all respondents for everything that we surveyed. We found that Communications improving, like I mentioned, and we think that, or we found the structure and roles and processes are moderate. You know, we're we're trying, we're working on building structures and processes, but we do need to kind of shift away from, uh, owner Steward, custodian, into more of like, producer consumer, application, development, and Central data engineering.
[00:20:10] but what we're weak is with mandate and scope decision rights and culture,
[00:20:18] and I think,
[00:20:19] That if we had a better use case and value, proposition Beyond simply improving data quality, or managing Integrations, or consolidating data, or helping with an Erp migration. If we're able to tie these things to, you know, increased sales in a particular segment, or, you know, reducing churn or turnover, uh, of a certain product or a product category. Uh, we will have more success in both in DNA, governance and AI governance and there and they are most certainly, uh, intertwined. Um, and so it's all about how do I execute on those use cases using both of those Technologies and capabilities.
[00:20:57] so, uh, 1 final slide on this section is
[00:21:00] This is in the same survey, we found that the tools that help for of the respondents, the tools that helped the most were data governance, tools data management platforms, and security and risk governance tools. Now, I'm not sure if Master data management tools were included in the survey, but I cover Master data management specifically. So I'm a little bit uh uh, biased towards it. But if organizations had Master data management tools, I would imagine that they would rank that uh quite near the top because entity resolution is a precursor and a key component of being able to get good trusted information out of conversational geni.
[00:21:36] Um, DNA platforms is another good tool. So, like atlan Elation Informatica, um, those tools, uh, have have good catalogs.
[00:21:47] So what do we do about AI governance? DNA leaders. Need to build key Partnerships to support AI governance. We have a wonderful opportunity, uh, to expand our roles, uh, and provide real value to the organization. Uh, but we haven't done so great in the past. And so now is a great time to kind of change the way that we think about governance.
[00:22:08] Number 4. How do we deal with unstructured data?
[00:22:11] and so,
[00:22:13] the point that I want to make in this section is that what what of my colleagues jokes? He said that, you know, they named it uh, the the the data Engineers named unstructured data unstructured data because they just simply didn't want to deal with it and so they kind of Set It Off to decide well, that's not, that's not structured data. That's unstructured data, that's somebody else's problem.
[00:22:30] Problem. But the point that I want to make in this section is that capturing and managing uh, metadata about unstructured data is very similar to the process that you go through for capturing and managing structured data uh or metadata about structured data. It's basically the same process. There's a couple nuances um but it's largely similar and it's absolutely necessary in order to build. Good knowledge, graphs to combine these 2 uh domains of metadata.
[00:22:56] So starting here, um, uh on undocumented, excuse me.
[00:23:01] Uh, unstructured data value, propositions are basically the same uh, as structured data value propositions I have risk, mitigation and value generation. I have defense and offense.
[00:23:12] Uh, compliance adherence, security enforcement.
[00:23:15] Const optimization, uh, and insight discovery.
[00:23:19] And what I'm working through, developing a product or capability. I'm going to capture a lot of the similar metadata that I would for structured data. So in my proof of concept, I'm going to focus on, uh, understanding, how much data do I have in a particular data source? What can I observe about that data in that data source, which source or sources? Is it coming from? And maybe who has access to it? As I move into the validation phase, I'm going to be looking at things like quality lineage and knowledge. Graphs, I want my colleagues to say that the way to measure quality of an unstructured data object is to compare the contents of the object with the metadata that's captured around it.
[00:23:59] That is the.
[00:24:00] Fundamental difference between structure and unstructured data as we start to operationalize it. We're looking at versioning compliance Regulatory Compliance access compliance and usage observations. And as we finally push it into production, we're looking at things like we're, we're continuously monitoring how people are using that information. We're getting alerts to changes about the underlying uh data objects and sources and we're looking for opportunities to scale and reuse that data.
[00:24:27] This is a, this is a great slide, but I'm actually a little bit behind on time. The, the main point of the slide is this, the main point of this slide is this is over time over time. We've thought about and we've kind of had to with how do at what at what part of the text tag. Do I capture
[00:24:45] And govern, uh, data capture metadata, and govern uh using metadata. And over time, we move from application, integration into Data warehousing, but as we look more towards the agentic future, um, it is much more interconnected, it still stays the same. But now I'm connecting multiple data, lakehouses, unstructured data sources, erps CRM file stores, but yet, still in the middle, we need governance Master data and security and it is not by accident. That Master data is dead center uh, on the far right hand side.
[00:25:20] Process is very similar to capturing metadata about structured data. I got to discover, I got to find it. I got to prioritize it. I got to analyze it tag and classify and connect.
[00:25:30] Can share the main difference here is that Genai is incredibly useful at being able to parse to create and parse metadata about documents and pictures and audio files. So Jenni itself is a great tool to capture and curate metadata about unstructured data objects.
[00:25:47] In our ultimate goal is connecting, uh, metadata about structured data assets with metadata, about unstructured data assets. And when we connect it, we develop a knowledge graph.
[00:26:01] Which is essential for for accurate Genai outputs.
[00:26:06] Its action for. What do I do about? Unstructured data? I prioritize unstructured uh ass unstructured data asset metadata and Associate that metadata.
[00:26:15] To existing structured asset metadata repositories.
[00:26:19] If you have calibra alation Informatica essentially, I want to profile unstructured data and I want to tie it to my data Assets in those tools.
[00:26:28] Number 5, do we need tools? Uh and if so which tools can help
[00:26:36] So if I'm building a data analytics organization uh and I'm trying to drive value, I need to have a couple core capabilities and those are listed across the top. I need to discover my data assets. I need to curate my data assets. I need to integrate them. I need to govern them, uh, through policy definitions. I need to execute those policies.
[00:26:55] And so Gartner defines the markets here on the left, the 5 Core markets here on the
[00:27:00] Left. And what I want you to take away, I want 3 things to take away from this slide.
[00:27:04] 1, is that each market does a really good job on delivering at least 1 of the capabilities.
[00:27:11] 2, unless you're going to choose to go with 1 of the few platforms. Very few like maybe 3 or 4 platforms that can meaningfully deliver on all of these capabilities. You need to plan for sharing the metadata between your multiple governance platforms. They need to be able to integrate. Elation needs to be able to integrate with money Carlo, which needs to be able to integrate with, you know, prophecy, which needs to be able to integrate with snowflake, right? You want to be able to share these tools.
[00:27:38] and 3, uh, some of the vendors will use creative interpretations about what these terms mean, uh, to claim that they do them when
[00:27:45] Fact that they don't. Uh, so what I'd recommend you do, uh, is take a look at the critical capabilities documents that we post with each magic quadrant and just, you know, kind of bump that up against what the vendors are saying, include those as a foundation, uh, to your rfis and rfps.
[00:28:01] Last slide if I want to operationalize DNA governance. I need a DNA governance platform.
[00:28:08] If I want to have Central oversight of AI related risks, I need an AI governance platform.
[00:28:15] If I want to address.
[00:28:16] Uh, ambiguous Enterprise data, I need a business class rate or a metadata solution.
[00:28:23] If I need better business process and analytics Integrity, I need data quality.
[00:28:28] If I need consistent.
[00:28:30] Master data about customers products and suppliers. I need a master data management tool.
[00:28:36] And if I need legal protection from unauthorized disclosures, I need a data security platform.
[00:28:43] Goal here is is if we've identified and prioritized our use cases and Link those Decor business processes and then determined the critical data elements that we need to uh, manage and master uh for to deliver on our use case. We're going to have a really clear idea of what type of Tool uh that we need.
[00:29:02] so, in summary,
[00:29:05] Why don't they see how important governance is aligned? Uh, aligned data governance to business value and don't talk about governance.
[00:29:13] How do I organize governance?
[00:29:15] That supports our needs. Use a hub and spoke model and a producer, consumer stewardship structure.
[00:29:22] How do I approach? AI? Governance, I capitalize on the opportunity in front of me to redefine what DNA governance means and align it with AI governance.
[00:29:33] How do I deal with unstructured data? Associate metadata about unstructured data was structured data to form a knowledge graph.
[00:29:41] And do I need tools? Uh, yes. Absolutely tools are super helpful. Um, just make sure that you're aligning the tool capabilities with your particular use case.
[00:29:51] So uh, in closing, uh, certainly I do like to travel, uh, 1 thing that I did not mention is I have a a, a fear of flying. Um, I really don't want
[00:30:00] Like, I don't like anything about it. Um, and so sometimes I just kind of have to remind myself uh much like sitting in a DNA uh, analytics organization. Uh, sometimes I kind of need to sit back uh, trust those around me. Um, relax and enjoy the ride, It's a Wonderful opportunity.
[00:30:17] All right, thank you all very much. I really appreciate it.