[00:00:05] Hello there. Good morning.
[00:00:07] How are you doing? All good?
[00:00:10] While while we were preparing for this session, the conference team asked me like what can we do for you here? For this particular session and I said, I only want the most motivated people.
[00:00:23] So, can you put it somewhere somewhere? Very far? Far away?
[00:00:27] And I also said, I only want the most intelligent people here. So can you make sure the room is really hard to find? Can you do something on the other side of the river? Maybe, and then they said, we can't really do that. But there's this thing called Capital Suite 10 and I thought that sounds really good. So so here we are
[00:00:45] Thank you so much for being here. The most motivated and the smart people in 1 room, that's that's I think wonderful and a little bit scary at the same time and even some people on the first row that is good. Like although you chose to set like on the, on the safe side here, you're sitting on the safe side as well and when you came in I saw you you stood there a little bit like it should I sit here? I'm not entirely sure. Ah, well shit. Okay, there we go. So you
[00:01:14] Okay. You've been to okay so you know I'm going to pick on you now. Yeah, no no. I before every session I actually wrote a dice
[00:01:21] Um, on which row I'm going to pick on and the dice roll 3 for. So it's so it's like you over there.
[00:01:30] That's going to be our story today. The story is going to be about um about politics a wonderful, a wonderful topic. It's a sensitive topic but I also think a really important topic and during the conference you're going to see all kinds of presentations that are really instructive on how to build data analytics and AI strategies. It's going to be about governance. It's going to be all the Strategic stuff around it and how to plan and how to be successful. This is the 1 session about how to get shit, actually done. So, that's our story for for today, and, um, and that's what politics does and and politics in, that sense is a little bit of a sensitive topic and particularly in the technology space.
[00:02:10] there's a lot of people that that tend to shy away from the idea of of politics,
[00:02:15] And, and they say things like, you know, I am, I'm I have I'm an engineer. I am, I am bad at politics, and be proud of that. But essentially what you're saying is that you're bad at your job because politics is part of every leadership job. And you're sitting here in some kind of a leadership position and another say, you know what, that is, not how things should be, and I don't want to play, I don't want to play political games. That is that is beneath me. I, I am. I'm on the high road and essentially what you're saying there is that I don't want to get anything done because politics is the art of getting some stuff done here. There's a there's a definition here of organizational politics. Uh read it if you want to. But um, what I'd like to point out was
[00:03:00] Comments. That my colleague Tina Nuno made about politics as we were preparing for. This is like you know what makes politics so important is that not everything is always taken care of in every organization. There's just a lot of white space or gray space where the rules aren't entirely clear, or there's no process or there's no procedure or there's no policy. And that's where politics come in the most. Um, and, and where you can get the most dumb actually, where stuff is not taken care of. And, and maybe that is the, that is just a toolkit, which is, which is nice to have particularly, um, um, AI is an important area to, to develop the politics around. And probably because AI is such a, um, a, a unique combination of things like, traditionally, as we grew up with technology, technology was either 1 or 2 techn.
[00:03:45] Policies either like really powerful and you can do anything, you would want with it, like a programming language, you can build anything you want, but very hard um, to, to operate or technology is like super simple to use, like an app for public transportation, but there's not much that you can do with it and and AI in that sense is a dangerous combination of the 2. It is super powerful and it's accessible to everybody. So, it changes the dynamic, in any organization around the decision making and the decision power and where it takes place, and, um, and how we need to, um, and, and how we need to go through those decision, making decision making processes. So, um, here's a total of, uh, of 7.
[00:04:30] Things that I want to discuss with you today. Uh, 2 on the side of dysfunctional politics, like the dirty sides, 4 things on the side of functional politics and the last 1 that says geopolitics. But very recently, a new research note came out on how AI is doing its own politics. So I decided to replace that 1 this morning sort of sitting behind the computer here. So, take pictures of those slides. That is like, brand brand, brand brand new stuff. So, let's, um, does it sound like interesting?
[00:04:58] Yeah. Okay. Shall we get started? We don't have a lot of time, and we have a lot to cover here, so we'll just go with full speed at any moment by the way. If you have a question, um, just raise your hand or shout, don't be shy. You're talking to a Dutch person and we're off. We're, yeah, we're fundamentally un.
[00:05:15] Defendable, you can tell, if you can say what you want, um, and uh, and if there's anything you'd like to contribute, please, uh, please do so at the Dutch are rude as well. So if you, um, you okay, particularly third row might get a bit of a different answer. Um, good number 1, um, the dysfunctional side of politics, I think there's about every single week, There's press releases that you see, uh, where companies say like we're going through layoffs and that is because of all the AI that is out there, we did the mass of all the layoffs that take place.
[00:05:48] Less than 1% and 1% is not a metaphor here. It's a data point less than 1% is actually because of AI. The rest is AI washing.
[00:06:00] It is just bad execution, companies that have made errors in the past, need to cut cost all of a sudden now. But if you just slap an AI badge on it, it sounds wonderful. It sounds strategic. It sounds forward-looking and woohoo. What a hero you are. So it is a, it is, I think kind of the worst way to hide the more or less the, the incompetence of organizations because the rest starts, the rest starts, believing it. And if you see so many press releases, also, your management starts believing. It's like a, hang on, why aren't we doing this, and why are we so behind? But it is not, it is largely. It is largely laws nonsense and even where, and even where we've seen those layoffs, taking place the latest research. So as a press release from garden,
[00:06:45] Came out last week. Of course when you lay off people, the costs go down, that's an immediate effect never ever.
[00:06:52] In the last couple of months, where we looked in all those situations never ever did, we actually see the value going up.
[00:07:00] It's not there, it's not there. So, uh, let's go a little bit, um, deeper here. The right thing to do is to realize
[00:07:11] That we're in a bit of a different situation are work. Force is shrinking. Here's an overview of um, of in which, where we are in, which part of the world work. For shrinking means more people are retiring, generation Alpha is coming into the workforce and they're simply less of them.
[00:07:30] This was locked in 20 years ago, there's nothing we can do about it anymore. Labor participation rates are hovering around the 60%, Euro wide, which is really low, and, um, companies and countries have been working on it. It's not getting higher and politically migration is becoming more and more sensitive. So, in my country, for instance, the workforce is it is like in the Netherlands, it is 20, uh, what is it? Um, 2037, uh, and that's mostly because of a better. The migration of the politically sensitive is still happening, but we see the effects already. Um, buses and trains in random places. Don't go because there is no driver um hospitals have to delay operations because there is no staff available restaurants are
[00:08:15] Closed on Tuesdays and Wednesdays because I simply no staff available, that is the situation where we're in. Every time you lay off, people is a moment where you will not be able to get those people back in another moment, it is not the right way forward to lay off people. The idea is to retrain and reskill people in order to work better with AI and get to better results, the best example that I have seen in the last couple of years comes from Ikea, Ikea, introduced a chatbot. Um, what would be the only? Who knows what would be the only possible name? The Ikea chat would could have that would be
[00:08:49] Billy.
[00:08:51] It's called Billy. And, of course it does and, um, pretty quickly. It started to take 47% of all clients inquiries,
[00:09:00] And they have 8,500 customer service Representatives. What will be the logical thing to do? Get rid of about half of them, cost savings, wonderful, success idea, did something else. They started to analyze the data by asking, what are the questions that we are not answering? What is it? That is falling between the cracks and they found that there's quite a bit of questions that was about interior design. What did they do? They retrained a bunch of people to help with interior design? Boom, 1 billion dollar business created. That is strategic thinking couple of weeks ago. Yansen Wang the CEO of Nvidia said that if you lay off people because of AI is the biggest sign of a creative lack of imagination. Um, um, the total lack of of, of strategic imagination. Because
[00:09:45] You simply just don't know what else to do with it. So essentially a bad thing to to do here so um um it is um in the politically. What you need to do here is is reframe. The conversation from being dysfunctional, about it to be in functional about it, and there will not be enough people to do the work. Do not talk about how AI takes jobs because it isn't taking jobs away from people. It is doing the work for which there are no people available over time. And that just just takes takes a while, be intentional about this. And, um, I think of this in the, in the, in the long term I think is the is the, is the conversation to have? I think this is the most strategic Point. That's why I put it up front.
[00:10:30] That I wanted to make for you today.
[00:10:32] Um, number 2.
[00:10:34] Do not treat AI um as a set of Technologies treated as a social phenomenon and um a look at it through that lens. If you don't, there's all kinds of unintended consequences that will that will surprise you. There's there's some pretty dysfunctional stuff out there, the price anyone from Sweden here.
[00:10:54] Hello.
[00:10:55] How are you doing? What's the name of your prime minister again?
[00:11:00] What's the name of your prime minister again?
[00:11:02] Sorry. Oh yeah, people in Sweden. Do not have last names. It's uh, it's a small country and everybody knows each other. Yeah, yeah. Oh if you're a good friend of um, was quoted,
[00:11:15] The prince saying that um um that using chat GPT every single day, um, and for summarizing complex, uh, documents to consume a quick to quickly consume to help with finessing speeches, Etc. And then the Swedish people were very, very upset because we didn't vote for Chet GPT we vote for voted for all while you're doing this. This is like a, this is like a, a social phenomenon social unintended consequence that we need to be aware of the example that I find that I found that completely blew my mind. I was, I was shocked when I, when I find out is that there's another unintended consequence as well, is that when men are using AI in the workplace, it is being seen as competent. It is being seen as technology.
[00:12:00] Oriented and finding Solutions and getting the best out of your complete environment and everything that you have at your disposal. When women use AI, they are holding back because they fear, it is being seen as a sign of incompetence and not being able to do the job yourself.
[00:12:16] I had never been able to come up with that topic, but it is happening. So we need, we need in our political behaviors, in the organization, we need to be aware of the social implications of, of this and we need to make sure that we address those in our in our businesses. Um, I would like that there's a couple of points here but there's 1 that there's 1 that I would like to highlight here and that is the importance of Role Models. Um, make sure that in your organizations there's
[00:12:45] Role models for people who use AI in the, in the right ways and in and, and, and that they're visible, and that they're being made successful out of it. And, and even more important, maybe be that role model. Um, your, um, yourself if you if you can. And, um, avoid the dysfunctional side of this, with the biases, um, the gender and other diversity biases that take place who have you knew this by the way.
[00:13:08] You knew about this. Yeah. How how how is it something that you experience or you read about it? What
[00:13:16] You read the article. Yeah. Yeah. Where you as shocked as I was, or am I just sitting here with all my white male privilege, being completely oblivious to the rest of the world or somewhere in between
[00:13:27] Somewhere in between. Okay. Yeah, yeah. Let's go for a new 1.
[00:13:30] Stuff, kills every conversation. Good. Oh, you're not even on the third row, I'm sorry. Okay, good. Um, moving on to the, um, to the third, um, to the third part of our, of our, the conversation here. Um, this may be the biggest question about politics. The biggest question is, who owns AI in our organization? Is that maybe the CIO that owns it? Because it is part of every technology investment that is there, is it maybe the CDA or the chief data and analytics officer? Because ultimately, this is the area where AI, um, emerges from and the data is really important, maybe should there be a separate Chief AI officer? As we see out there as well. Is there any, any?
[00:14:15] 1 here who has a chief or who is a chief AI officer in your organization. That would be a good. Hello there, where are you from?
[00:14:23] Which country? Yeah.
[00:14:25] Sorry.
[00:14:28] You are from many countries. Yes. Yeah good. Yeah. And today you're in London. And you're a Londoner today, how? Lovely? In the moment you are nice. Thank you so much. Yeah, yeah. I don't know. I'm very different wherever I go. I'm still Dutch, I just like to
[00:14:44] I can't help but ah this is going nowhere. Okay. Um,
[00:14:52] Um, but I think it's an old-fashioned question. I think the question in the end is is less and less relevant of who owns, who owns something that?
[00:15:00] Like everywhere. Um, how can you? If you, and if you own, if you own, if you claim to own something that's everywhere, what do you then the defective CEO? Maybe it is. It's just a question, just doesn't work and it leads to a lot of dysfunctional conversations. A lot of fights that are completely that are completely unnecessary. It just doesn't doesn't work that way. I think it works in, in, in, in multiple ways. I think again, we need to reframe the conversations words do matter. Words create frames words, create pictures for Words. Create, um, a World Views. Um, but we should not talk about ownership, maybe we should talk about stewardship. So, um, um, who is stewarding AI in the organization? I would say every leader is stewarding because there's AI in every part
[00:15:45] With the organization. So we all have a role of stewardship here and it is not really about ownership. It is about orchestration. So maybe if we all own, if we all are stewards of the AI, we still have an issue of orchestration that we do things in a slightly coordinated way. And then there's 1 person who gets to coordinate that that gets to coordinate that a little bit throughout the organization. But within the stewardship of the rest of the of the business, make this about a stakeholder collaboration and make it about collaborative goals of what to do, how do we use AI together, collectively in our organization. So, there's a bit of an echo chamber, and a bit of reuse of skills and resources and Lessons Learned and best practices, and that should be the, the idea should there have to be an
[00:16:30] Owner because otherwise nothing happens and that is how the culture of your organization works. Of course, do not always go against, it might be a tactical necessity that you would have to go through. But then the most important goal for the owner that is appointed for AI. The most important goal is to make yourself obsolete in 2 or 3, uh, years. And that is then the ultimate measure of success and bonus and recognition, Etc. What you, what you have. There's um,
[00:17:00] There's a few other things that you can do here as well. 1 thing that I've seen with a very large with a very large bank. Is that they said, you know, um,
[00:17:09] Super large, super, like, lots of business units. Um, we can't possibly centralized
[00:17:15] Controlled everything. So here's the rules that we have, everybody can do anything with AI whatever they want.
[00:17:23] But the moment you want to take something into production, which is an important moment in a regulated entity, then it needs to be certified. So there's a bunch of centers of excellence, where every division, there's a center of excellence and there's a certification process. And they are saying self-regulating elements in it, because if you make use of the standards, that is supported by the bank. Then the, then, the certification process is fairly straightforward. If you choose to make use of some kind of an esoteric technology that nobody has ever seen before. It's going to be a hard process. So there's kind of a self-regulating element and I thought this was an extremely um smart way of both.
[00:18:00] Of both, um, having some level of control, while completely leveraging, all the creativity and all the enthusiasm that is there in the in the business. Um, and um, a standardization generally is a good alternative for ownership because we all have the same way of working and we have somewhat of the same technology basis than ownership in that sense becomes irrelevant. Because we all have a singular way of working and the orchestration, then takes care of that level of of standardization. So ownership in that sense, is an, um, an outdated, an outdated concept here. Um, going to number 4
[00:18:41] We're um, we're making progress here. Are we okay with the pay?
[00:18:45] This this, this, um, it's a pace or should I go? Fast or should I go slower? Yeah. Okay, a few something you use teams too much basically, like, yeah? Yeah. What we copy technology. Is it almost, right? It's like, um, we do now in real life, we do this. Uh, who did this before teams?
[00:19:04] You did. Yeah, okay. Oh, that's funny. But a lot of and there's another weird thing going on on teams is that people wave at each other at the end. Have you noticed that? What is the last time that you set on your deck? In a group of desks in the office? And you say, I'm going to go for coffee and then you maybe the team you wait, I don't know. Um, um, anyway good. Um,
[00:19:30] So, um, um, Ai and decision, making, another really, really important. Really important point to, uh, um, to make, um, AI agents, um, are increasing power. At least that's the goal for the coming years, are increasing their level of agency, the capacity to act and to decide independently in a particular in a particular business concept and that is that's super powerful, that's super attractive and it helps scale and there's a lot of business opportunity there. Um, but there's a couple of complications here as well, because if you mess with people's decisions,
[00:20:07] You mess with people's power.
[00:20:09] So, the AI agents trend is enormously threatening at the same time.
[00:20:15] The moment you go in with a wonderful business case, uh, to, um, all of the decision making is of makers and all your peers in the business. Like, you know, there are so much we can do here and there are decision making well so much improve. Essentially, it is like a hidden insult in there which is the 1 of incompetence so far. Nobody likes to hear that. They have been a sub-optimal decision-making so so far maybe even if it is the case. Moreover um, as with AI agents, we increase the level of transparency of decision, making that is a threat as well because transparency takes the magic of decision, making our way. There are so many people and maybe it is even magic and maybe it is intuition and maybe it is the sum of all experience. There are so many Executives that have been in the job for maybe for 30 years and gone through
[00:21:00] Ranks and that can walk into a room and smell where the problem is because they've gone through it. All my brother is an accountant and um um, um, he claims that he can like even in the spreadsheet with font size 4, with some kind of a financial overview. You can do that. There's something wrong there, um, because it is having gone through everything for years and years, and years themselves. And if you use AI agents, you take some of that magic you take away. And that is threatening, uh, to put people of what they build up in experience for those years, even, maybe that is a good thing because it helps other people reach that level of experience and intuition much much faster, but it leads to all kinds of unintended consequences of people, feeling feeling threatened and trying to avoid.
[00:21:45] Um, all of this. So um, again the answer and I think in most of Politics, the answer is always reframing. How do we frame the situation that leads to a certain problem? And how do we reframe it into something that is a little bit more functional and how do we reframe decision power here?
[00:22:04] I think the story here is that we recognize decision power, not as the amount of decisions that somebody takes themselves.
[00:22:13] But we reframe it as the number of the decisions that we oversee.
[00:22:18] And if we want to build power in organizations, which is a very human thing to do and not something that we can stop. So it is something that we need to embrace. How can we Embrace that the best way?
[00:22:30] By adopting all kinds of agentic AI technology. As that is the most scalable way of increasing the power that we have of the number of decisions that we oversee. So, if you're really consistent in reframing, this conversation on, how do we become more powerful in every business unit, um, by increasing the span, not the span of control of people, but the span of control of decisions, then essentially, you're making, um, steps forward. Another thing I think is to reframe the conversation, is that the decision making? And this is sometimes hard for data and analytic Specialists, who have been growing up in such a quantitative mind. But decision making is more than running. The numbers. In the simulations, are coming up at the best optimized outcome. Um, the best decision sometimes are
[00:23:15] Moral in, uh, in nature. I'm not sure. If you remember, this was in the 1960s, there was this car in the United States, I forgot which 1 it was, but if you would bump into it from a certain angle, the gas tank would explode.
[00:23:26] And the analyst ran the following, um comparison, what will be the cost of a recall of all the models. And this is this is in the design of the car, this is not easy to fix and fixing it and what is the cost of court cases, and maybe the money that we need to pay for people that have died during equation? The the cost of the recall was higher
[00:23:46] What is the quantitative decision Row 3?
[00:23:51] Yes, the the lady who looks very confused right now. Yes, what is the right decision here?
[00:23:58] Is it the the going for the recall?
[00:24:00] Or no, it's not going for the recall. The quantity says, the quantity says, or it's going for the recall instead of the uh, now I'm confused. Yes. Go for the recall although it is more expensive. So the numbers say something else but it is the right thing to do, or maybe the best relay or the best decisions are a relationship based. Um, maybe somebody has been messing up lately, but we've been working with that person for 20 years and instead of optimized and replace, we should actually work with that person and improve performance. Um, decision making is much, is much much more um,
[00:24:34] Going to number number 5, we have a few minutes left. Um,
[00:24:40] The.
[00:24:42] The, the results of particularly generative, AI are disappointed.
[00:24:45] 95% of all Pilots um um, do not have the results that that they should have, uh, boards are getting um, impatient with the return on the investment on, the AI that they've been investing in. And um I think it has to do with the lack of vision or the lack of a big picture here. So this is how AI goes and most of our organizations, what do you want AI? When do we want it? Now, why do we want it? Because everybody else is doing it and then it leads to some kind of a co-pay that's implementation and then that's it.
[00:25:18] Leadership.
[00:25:19] Is about setting a vision a big picture to set a level of ambition here, and that is what we need to do as well. Of course, short term. We need to have quick wins. That always
[00:25:30] Works well, but next to it, make sure there is a purpose. What kind of an organization do we want to be? What are our values? What is our customer value? What is it that we believe in and then work your way back? What does that mean? For the AI Investments that we need to that? We need to go uh, through moreover, on the quick win track. Make sure that learning is an actual explicit goal. It isn't always return on investment. Sometimes we do stuff because we simply need to learn how it's how it works. And then that is the, um, then that is the realistic expectation that we, that we set.
[00:26:07] um,
[00:26:09] We need to deal with resistance, another big part of of Politics as well. And and AI.
[00:26:15] In that sense is a is a people business. Um, we do see examples of sabotage projects, already, people being afraid for, um, for their their jobs. And why should I help Implement something that will cost me my job. Um, later people are are protective and, and what would be, what would be the the, the intuitive thing to do, the intuitive thing to do, would be to convince those people that it's the right thing to do.
[00:26:39] That's not how it works. Be counterintuitive?
[00:26:43] Figure out a few people.
[00:26:47] That are willing to try everything because it advances their career reframe, the situation, overseeing decisions, make them successful.
[00:26:54] Then the others will see hey wow, they're successful. And then asked like how
[00:27:00] How did you get so smart? All of a sudden and then say, because I've got myself an AI person and that is you and then the other people will come to you. And now you've created demand instead of that, you're trying to sell something a much, much smarter, political way of getting people um, over the fence. Oh, by the way, people in general, aren't that um, afraid that AI will do their jobs, they see the complications in the Nuance of their job. What they're really afraid of is that their bosses think that AI can do that job. So don't be that boss of which the people are afraid that you think that AI can do their and their, their job here. And here's the last thing that I wanted to discuss with you in the last couple of minutes and this is the the brand new stuff, the brand new thinking.
[00:27:45] Here, is that there is some um, indications that multi-agent systems are going to develop their own politics.
[00:27:54] The idea of how we think is politics is maybe um, as an idea that is typically human. That is how we humans work with each other. And we're living beings with Free Will and Consciousness. And and politics is part of it, there's more and more indications that politics are simply an emergent property of any sufficiently complex Network that can be a network of animals bees and ants, do vote.
[00:28:18] Chimpanzees and gorillas have long-term, territorial disputes and Wars with, with, with each other. So, it's also animals. And there's now also indications that it doesn't seem to be a network of living things.
[00:28:30] It's just any sufficiently complex Network, develops by Nature, its own politics. Um, um, we've seen um, um, experiments where um, collaborating agents, um, Define some kind of social conventions ways of working with each other fluently, and that is, in a way, a sense of politics AI agents, that negotiate with each other and reconcile conflicting, or different perspectives and insights with, with each other, as a process of of collaboration, there was a single project sit where AI agents were building some kind of a society and all kinds of coordinating and leading roles started to emerge like a mayor and other types of of leadership and anthropic. And, and
[00:29:15] 1 of the important AI vendors is is starting with this was something that was called constitutional AI. Can we build in some Rules of Engagement with each other into the AI itself that has stopped down in the post? But the next thing is that we find ways of setting guardrails on how the AI can can do this themselves. Um, I would argue that, we need to embrace this idea of emergent politics from the network, first of all, because it can't be avoided. It happens in every Network. Um but there's a good chance that AI politics are superior in a couple of ways. Um they can run many more scenarios. They create essentially the old Greek system of the Agora with all the people on the Square, that would do the decision making and the communities are small, then. So you could
[00:30:00] But now with scales, all of a sudden everyone is involved in the process every actor, machine, actor, and human actor is involved and hopefully AI will come up with different solutions and different ways of thinking non-human ways of thinking that um, um, that we can learn from and, and adopt respects us, that we haven't had ourselves at the same time, it's still Computing. And there's always the tyranny of the of the majority because that is something that you can compute. And I would say that the Hallmark of every well-developed society is, how do we deal with the minorities as well? So there's a little bit of work to do a couple of things to close off. Um, who of you have children in teenage years?
[00:30:44] um, had
[00:30:45] Your the boys girls. What you have.
[00:30:49] Boy. And how how old is the boy?
[00:30:51] 16 16 the perfect age? Yeah. Same as my my girl 16 has your boy told you already when you set something. Oh that that is AI.
[00:31:02] Yeah, did you know what that means?
[00:31:06] I bet you took it as a compliment.
[00:31:11] It means that's bulshit.
[00:31:14] Kids used to refer you start to refer AI as all. The all the, the BS that is out there and when your kids tells you that is so AI. It means that you're full of it with that.
[00:31:30] Um thank you so much for taking the effort to coming all over here. Um I've got a request um let's make this with a small group that we are like a super exclusive thing. Give this presentation, any score you want? I don't mind. Give it whatever you think it's worth, but in the little comment field, say, like, write something like, I'd love to say how awesome the presentation was.
[00:31:52] But we're sworn to secrecy.
[00:31:56] That'll give people the right Vibe. Thank you so much for being here.