[00:00:04] Hi everyone.
[00:00:05] So let's get started. Um, data fabric has become the foundation for creating a long-term, strategic data management architecture. Uh, not just to support, uh, just the normal data management, use cases. Now it has evolved into supporting your agentic AI or even Advanced analytics, AI use cases. Uh, in fact, a significant portions of the inquiries that we take today. It's about how we can prepare.
[00:00:30] The our Enterprise data management to support AI Readiness and data fabric becomes the integral part of that. Uh, in today's presentation, we're going to review about how data fabric can become the foundation, even though we've been talking about data fabric for the last several years,
[00:00:45] How he has evolved into supporting some of the advanced AI capabilities. And also we want to understand some of the Practical aspects of what it takes to create data Fabric and what are some of the vendor landscape look like, uh, whether we should buy or we should acquire or how do we really put together the data fabric architecture? And then finally, we also look at some of the critical considerations which are essential for a successful implementation of data fabric.
[00:01:09] Uh, before we get started, Let's uh, look into the evolution of data architecture or data management architecture or the past several years. Uh, uh, how did you get there? So that we can learn from it? Uh, back in the early, uh, 20000. Uh, we primarily focused on building a data, warehouse data data March, uh, to help support a lot of our structured reporting.
[00:01:30] So that you can help Drive business insights and also help you to drive some business decisions but apparently they built around the Kimball and Inman approach of building your data. Warehouse data mods, Etc, which is primary focused on creating more fragment Analytics.
[00:01:46] As you fast forward, uh we started working on what we call, like a logical data warehouse, where we not only leverage your data warehouse and data leaks, but we also, then integrate our operational systems, uh, so that we can create some sort of a unified semantic layer to help consume, um, the data to help create that unified analytic layer. Um, for most of us I would say we are still here uh because it kind of becomes the foundation for everything that we build. Uh but 1 of the bigger challenge here is that even though it
[00:02:15] Provides broader access to all top site of data. It requires significant integration managing and maintaining the pipeline. You also have uh complexity that you have to build as part of semantic layer.
[00:02:27] So then comes, I would say the last, uh, postco, uh, we are seeing more and more. I think the same logical data warehouse. Now, start evolving into more, we call them as augmented analytics and when you look into the critical piece, what it really supports is the metadata. So now we are talking more and more about metadata, because metadata cannot become the fuel for everything that we do not. Just from a data pipelining data integration data management. It also helps you with your orchestration. It also helps you with some of the recommendation which becomes the foundation for everything that we do today with AI.
[00:03:00] In today's presentation, we are going to talk about. I'm going to touch on a little bit about data Fabric and why we should invest in. And then we go into, what are some of the components that are required to help build the data Fabric? And then we also navigate some of the vendor landscape uh to help understand uh how you can assemble this data fabric architecture.
[00:03:22] So what is the data fabric? Uh, as I said before, it is the foundational and a long-term data management architecture. It's more than architecture. I would say it's a pattern, which require you to integrate multiple components to help put together that architectural pattern. Um,
[00:03:37] Primarily what is the purpose? It is for help us to attain, uh, more flexible augmented and optimal data management. Uh, what is flexible means
[00:03:45] It helps you to uh bring data from void variety of sources with a structured or unstructured data. It help you to manage some of the schema changes, your data drifts, it helps you to, uh, have the the ability for you to make changes to your, uh, infrastructure. So that you can not only focus on addressing some of those pipeline failure, but also makes it more flexible augmented, um, rate directly to automation. So, now that you have the foundation architecture, which is flexible. You can do lot of augmentation and help you to optimize your data Pipeline and products. Um, so to provide better visibility to what you're trying to do.
[00:04:23] What does it do? It primarily utilizes metadata metadata becomes the foundations for helping you to create data fabric.
[00:04:30] And within the metadata it leverages active metadata, not only help you to drive insights so that you can look into your observability. You can look into uh, your system logs your data pipeline, your query patterns, so that it can drive a lot of insights using those metadata, which we call Active metadata. So that you can then put them into a knowledge layer or a Knowledge Graph to help provide semantics, uh, which becomes a critical component for supporting your AI use cases.
[00:04:56] And finally, uh, data fabric, also supports multiple deployment options. Um, it helps you to combine your operational, analytical data to help support wide variety of use cases. And 1 of the thing is, there is always a constant debate about data fabric versus data mesh. Uh, in fact, what data fabric can complement, a lot of the data mesh,
[00:05:15] Architecture. Uh, so that you can actually create Federated data management by using the foundation of data fabric. So, uh, so the the key thing here is it does support a wide variety of deployment options to help, create that unified semantics to help support your uh data management needs.
[00:05:33] so, it is
[00:05:34] What you call as intelligent orchestration engine uh, for your Enterprise. So it's basically a control plane for managing all your data.
[00:05:42] So in a simple term, when you look at what data fabric, it is basically a metadata management layer help you to put together all the recommendation, that is why it is called as an intelligent orchestration engine. Uh, so that it can gather all the metadata help you to utilize that metadata to help.
[00:06:00] Create those context help you to create semantics, which would then feed into a recommendation engine to help, uh, provide a lot of insights about your data so that you can learn from it, you can then become more adaptive, uh, which supports agents. So, if you look at, uh, when you look into the agentic data management, now we are seeing agent is not just automation, it's also about creating more adaptive uh planning. Which requires you to have those recommendation engine
[00:06:27] So, uh, when you look into the. So this is the survey that we did. Um, and when you look into the survey, uh, if you look at what, we just asked a simple question, okay. What are some of the top 5 Investments that data management leaders that they plan to do in the next 2 to 3 years? Obviously the topmost is all about investment in AI, ready data?
[00:06:45] But the interesting part is that when you look into everything underneath it, which has a lower percentage. Uh, they become the foundation for everything that you do because without these whether without you having a good data quality and governance, without you not having the ability for you to have a better integration, active metadata management tools and practices. Um, your a ready data initiative becomes
[00:07:08] Pointless or useless. So, the, the interesting Paradigm here is that, when you look into the the, where your investing on the data, the foundation, things becomes even more important, that kind of becomes what you see as a lagging indicator, to help support your a ready initiative.
[00:07:27] so in simple, as I say data fabric is your
[00:07:30] Foundation or your data foundation for, uh, generative Ai, and we have seen more and more organizations, they are ready for AI, but then when you look into their, their uh data management practices that we are finding that they don't have a strong foundation. And that is why even today when you look into more than 80% of the use cases on AI. It's all about unstructured data uh where very few and far use case that we are seeing people are started using structured data. And and part of it is because of not having a strong data Foundation which would then I think helps us to uh help support through uh uh data Fabric. And when you look into this architecture, it is all about alignment of your metadata along with making sure that you have the validation and you have ability to capture
[00:08:15] Exception. And that's why you require a combination of both your human and AI combination. That's required to help support it. And how do you achieve it? It is through building a strong semantic layer, uh, which would then help for AI to start ground itself with your internal data.
[00:08:33] And that is basically what the principles of data Fabrics. So in a simple term data fabric, becomes a teacher and also a student to your generate AI so that you can learn from each other, uh, on 1 end. It is going to help, uh, your rag your um, graph rag or whether whether you're using all the unstructured data to help you to enrich your business. Semantics, so that you can combine your structured data with unstructured data through vectors or
[00:09:00] Through knowledge layer, but then you can also be, uh, assisting as a student, uh, so that your AI can start maintaining that contextual information to help bring new variety of sources into your, um, data management layer.
[00:09:15] so now next look into what it takes to create a data fabric,
[00:09:20] So I know this is a very maybe a ISO slide but what I really want to focus on is just the different color coding. There are only 6 colors here, um, all these 6 colors, different represent the different, I call that technology components. Uh, this is all what it comprised for help you to build, uh, a composable, uh, data fabric architecture. And the most important thing is you don't need all of them. Uh, you can always start
[00:09:45] That something simple foundational and then you can evolve your data fabric architecture over a period of time. Uh that is why it is important that it is not a single tool or a single technology. It's a combination of multiple components that you can bring together. However, the good news is the, the market is also evolving where uh you are seeing more and more vendors are adding or integrating more components of these layers as part of their overall ecosystem. And we also seeing that there's a lot of interoperability that's being built in the market to help support to bring these different pieces together. Uh, as you look at these different layers, starting with the data Foundation.
[00:10:20] uh, and then, which is basically where your position layer is, that's where you support your data lake house, your data Hub, and all the other system data and about,
[00:10:30] It, you have the metadata layer, which is basically your data catalog and all your knowledge layer and Then followed by your data quality layer. And then you have the orchestration. And then, finally, you have tools that help you to, uh, deploy or create your data products, uh, into your Marketplace or help do some data preparation, finally, you can and deliver data to the consumer. Now, I walk through these different steps on what it takes to create this data fabric sandwich, or the different layers of data fabric, uh, starting with, I think it was a step on is start cataloging your data, uh, so that you can improve, uh, so that, uh, you can what you can find or what you cannot find the data. Uh, when you look into this metadata layer,
[00:11:12] You have.
[00:11:14] Technical operation.
[00:11:15] Business and social metadata. The 1 is far-left is primarily I would say it's mainly it managed mainly your data Engineers or AI Engineers who primarily focused on creating this technical data and operational metadata to help support their pipeline to help support to bring your manage data. The the right side is mainly around the business side of the house where the business is responsible for creating the ontology helps create the metadata tagging and mapping and relationship to help support the to build that contextual layer to help support your AI use cases. Um, so even though I would say with the evolution of metadata management that's evolving, um, I would say, even though I call them as high and low, it becomes, I would say hi low and high high because uh, the foundation component or the technical pieces also become
[00:12:00] Become very crucial for a lot of the AI use cases. So, um, I would say, the first and foremost step is to you want to start with cataloging your data.
[00:12:10] Next comes the
[00:12:11] knowledge layer. Um, for some of you you might say do I really need a knowledge graph or some uh do I really need 1 or do? I don't need 1 and part of it. I'd say you probably may not need it now but eventually you may get benefit from it.
[00:12:28] What are some of the advantages of Knowledge Graph and Knowledge Graph can help you to build relationship? Uh, that are crucial, for example, in a typical structured data, you can always create joints so that you can have that. I call the how the data relate to each other, but the knowledge graph,
[00:12:45] Produce additional insights about the data. Uh, it only not uh, provide implicit relationship. It also provides explicit relationship so that it can be used, uh, which you typically cannot be done through a traditional modeling and integration approach. That's where the knowledge graphs can become helpful. As I said, the traditional modeling techniques assume static requirements whereas uh, Knowledge Graph can actually derive uh relationship through dynamically. You can also leverage, not just your static metadata. It can also leverage lot of your active meta. For example, if you're building pipelines. Uh, if you have system logs, it can, uh, take those information and it can start kind of building your relationship more explicitly. Uh, Knowledge, Graph can also help you to bring structured and structured data.
[00:13:30] So if you have, uh, unstructured data that you can do a lot of tagging and you can vectorize that information and then feed into Knowledge Graph. So that Knowledge Graph can become more machine readable data, so that it can provide the relationship uh to support heterogeneous data sources uh which are typically combined through we call vertices which are called nodes and also uh the the edges to help support and enriching your semantics. Uh again for some organization if you feel too advanced so you don't have to start with it, but something that it is important that you want to consider as part of your data fabric architecture,
[00:14:05] So next comes the integration Styles, uh, as we all know data fabric is thrives on metadata metadata is comes through these different index.
[00:14:15] Ation patterns that we use uh traditionally when we use different tools for different data integration. For example, I know organization, they use tool a for data, replication to be for data virtualization tool C for doing the ETL pipeline. Uh, there's nothing wrong about it. Obviously, you are trying to build, bring the best of the breed Technologies to help support your integration. But through the process you are kind of proliferating your metadata. So the metadata that sits in the replication tool does not have the same metadata that you have in the, uh, elt tool and that can create problem in. It comes to building in our operability especially when you want to optimize your pipeline or if you want your data fabric to start, creating that recommendation engine to help support Advanced capabilities. So 1 of the thing as part of the
[00:15:00] Data fabric pattern is to make sure that you try to combine where Fabric and help you to combine those different integration to um metadata. So that you can have a unified metadata pattern which can help you to optimize your data integration. Uh use cases uh, to help support your AI because uh, the data integration tools helps you to support in 2 areas. 1 is on the active metadata and also on the static metadata. So it helps you to kind of enhance your uh, uh, uh,
[00:15:31] Semantics to you. So the the key message here is you want to make sure that the fabric helps you to kind of build that uh, Foundation by combining these different data integration styles.
[00:15:44] Step 4.
[00:15:45] Is about uh data apps. What is the data apps in a simple term data Ops is nothing but it combines your orchestration observability to help support your
[00:15:55] Data automation, uh, deployment. Uh, as you look through the data Ops, the first thing is making sure that you have the pipeline occupation that are different, that are across different Technologies and platform. Especially when you in this picture, as you can see, when you have different vendor tools. That when you're using you want, they probably they all going to have different metadata how you can kind of integrate these different metadata as part of your data fabric architecture, so that you can unify them to help build that orchestration.
[00:16:23] Next comes the observability. So data observability is mainly to help track your lineage your all the
[00:16:30] Pipeline the system logs on how, uh, your data so data absolutely help you to collect that information. So, data fabric, uh, require not just the orchestration but also help support your observability. And finally, it also helps you to do the cicd, especially when it comes to code migration or code deployment, uh, where you, that's where most of the augmentations are done. Especially when you want automate your uh data pipeline. Or if you want to automate your migration between Dev test prod, you want to be able to have the capability. So uh 1 of the key
[00:17:03] Enablement, for data fabric is again to make sure that you can enable your data Ops to streamline delivery.
[00:17:09] And and the most importantly, I think when you look into the vendor ecosystem today, most of the vendors are help you.
[00:17:15] You with streamlining, those activities, uh, independently, whether you're looking at a data Ops, vendor whether looking at data integration vendors, each 1 of them are helping you to kind of unify that metadata. Um, either through consolidation of tools. Uh, the key message here is that if you try to use different tools where you want to, hey I don't want to have the vendor lock in. So I want to bring these different vendors to so that I can build on my own side so that I build the best of the breed that I think it's going to really work against.
[00:17:43] You can kind of building this whole data fabric architecture. So I'll also talk about some of the patterns towards the end but that's a key uh information that you want to make sure that uh, as part of you creating your data, uh, fabric.
[00:17:56] so this, the fifth step that required for data fabric is to
[00:18:00] Provides self-service capabilities, uh, so that it can operate both on more 2 and more 1 operations. Uh, what does it really mean? Uh, when you think about more 2, more 2 is think of like, I am a na engineer data engineer. Who wants to basically use a self-service tools like data prophecy or maybe ahlrichs tools like where I don't want to work with the data engineer. I just want to be able to Wrangle my own data so that I can do those self-service data preparation activities so that I can use it in an exploratory uh fashion so that and then what you can do is then you can start here and then you can eventually start having some sort of a operationalization to data fabric what data fabric can do is it can help you to promote based on the usage.
[00:18:45] Of the data. For example, if you create an exploratory area where people are using the data based on the patterns of who is using it, how often they are using it and how it's being utilized, you can operationalize it so that it can automatically
[00:18:58] migrate that pipeline into mode 1 operations so that you can end and deploying it here. So it gives you 2. Things 1 is as you as a data engineer working on building your an operating pipeline you're also allowing business to start kind of building their own pipeline sometimes. I think when you think about the rag, what we see today with unstructured and structured data, many of them are kind of started that way because you want to have the end user started working on the data because they understand the the context. So you want to be able to have them touch and feel about the data
[00:19:30] Then obviously, you want to make sure that you have a gatekeeping activity so that they don't put some bad things to production. So you want to operationalize it? So this helps you to support this more 1, more to operations um
[00:19:42] The next thing is about how it can serve as a data product delivery. Uh, so many times when we think about, uh, data mesh or domain Centric data management, uh, we see a situation where obviously each domain want to have their own way of building, uh, their data product, they want to be able to do data Discovery. They want to be able to do semantic search. They also want to be able to create their own data products building their own pipeline. I think there's nothing wrong about it, but the key problem there is, uh, when you have a single system that's been used,
[00:20:15] By let's say multiple domains. Do you want to allow each of the domain to access provide access to the source system? So that may create redundancy create strain to your Source system and 1 way to approach is to complementing the data fabric with data mesh. Uh so where you can have data fabric, can kind of be the foundation or architecture Foundation where you can bring the data, you can contextualizar metadata, you can create that. And then allow each domain team, basically, run their operating model, uh, on top of your data fabric data. So it gives you the best of both worlds, because you're kind of building the unified, um, semantics and unified data layer as part of the data fabric as a foundation and then allowing each domain to still kind of be independent.
[00:21:00] And be able to create data product, uh, in a more self-satisfaction.
[00:21:05] And then the the other important part is to understand the difference between we call passive metadata and active metadata sometimes.
[00:21:13] I think it becomes too Technical and people have a hard time understanding. So 1 of the way you can think about is think of passive metadata is basically like a thermometer, uh, where you can monitor the data management and your current realization. So it's like testing the pulse of. Okay. What's happening with my data management operation today? That's what basically a passive metadata.
[00:21:34] What active metadata is actually it can collect data on a continuous basis. So you're not testing your randomly on a need basis. It'll constantly collects the temperature in the scenario.
[00:21:45] And it can based on that, it can automatically regulates the data management utilization. This is where the whole automation autonomous comes in. For example, we talked about a lot of agentic use cases, especially in the case of AI. Uh, when you think about agent, uh, obviously agent. I've been tasked to do certain tasks, which it will do, but agent also need to be more adaptive. For example, if you have a pipeline, that's, you're running. And if the pipeline is not meeting the SLA and it's bleeding into your SLA requirement. So the next thing, the agent needs to do is he needs to go and make it more adaptive. So I since it's not no longer it's going to return by a human being. So agent needs to automatically find out, okay, this pipeline is uh, going past my SLA. So I need to now rewrite this pipeline of
[00:22:30] Or maybe I need to reconfigure this pipeline so that it can do things differently to help achieve the similar SLA to help support it. You want to make sure that you have this active metadata, which can constantly help you to do the analysis based on that. And it can basically
[00:22:46] Uh, help support those alignment deviation between your design time and data and also the actual operational experience so that you can constantly make those adjustments.
[00:22:57] Uh, step 9 is about, uh, the finance, uh, which is how you can make sure that you are managing your price performance. Uh, price performance is not just what you pay. It's more about. Am I getting the? Am I paying the right price for the outcome that I'm achieving? And
[00:23:15] And when you look into some of the objectives examples here so sometimes you have an SLA to deliver a particular report or you want to basically want to have an application that needs to perform in certain requirements. Uh when you take this objective and SLA you want to make sure that the data fabric can take those information, it can then help you to optimize leveraging the metadata so that it can help you to support those pipeline. For example, if somebody says, okay, I need to report every day at 9:00 a.m. uh you want to make sure that it uses the lowest possible resources or the lowest possible cost to help support that work to, to, uh, execute that workload. So that it can provide that price performance for your overall operations.
[00:23:56] so, when you think about bringing all these 2 3 to
[00:24:00] Together, you could see that.
[00:24:02] Each of those layer becomes, uh, important. So the question is, okay, where do you start? Um, you can always start with the foundational path. What is the foundational path? Uh, Foundation path or just making sure that you have a good metadata foundation, so that you can capture your catalog. Um, in some cases it could just be, uh, uh, uh, a passive catalog. So you can start capturing, okay, which system we are bringing the data from what type of data it is. So start collecting the metadata and then you would then use that metadata to help support your data engineering Pipeline and data preparation activities because most of the data engineering tool integration can be done using passive metadata because it just needs to know how these
[00:24:45] Information data is connected, how I can so that you can start generating your pipeline. So you can start with a simple metadata layer Foundation.
[00:24:54] And the next you can start, then start exploring some of the advanced capabilities here. 1 of them is obviously uh you want to enrich your semantics, where you want to bring structured and unstructured data. Then you want to start maybe collecting more active metadata and then you want to start building some knowledge layer or Knowledge Graph, uh, to help support the broader semantics. So that would be the, the advanced capability that you can do. And then, we can also then use it to do lot of the data Ops activities and finops activities. So where you can not only help you to generate the code, uh generate the orchestration. It can also then make it more adaptive.
[00:25:30] Based on the demands and then you can also help you to track, okay? How I can make sure that I run these pipeline uh, for a better price performance? And finally, uh, we're also seeing the evolution of agents and AI. Now, help you to automate, uh, creating a data products, uh, from an end to end. So it not only just help you to, um, build the foundation. So you now you can, you can have agents today. Agent can automatically create a data products from from the start to the finish and also help you to deploy some of your data to data Marketplace.
[00:26:04] And then finally, when you look into the automation side of the house, this is basically where you have the metadata analysis that help you to support those activation. And then the recommendation engine to help support.
[00:26:15] The, the advanced capabilities.
[00:26:18] um,
[00:26:19] the step 10, I think, what is also important is there is a symbiotic cycle between agents and data fabric. Uh, as we talked about data, fabric is basically the foundation to help create the metadata to help support context to help support the semantics, for agentic AI consumption. So if you look at from an AI a second, some consumer data fabric kind of help you to build that Foundation,
[00:26:42] Also, it is important that agents actually contribute to help build or update your data fabric because agents have the ability to collect your metadata. Uh, your semantics, your logs. For example, based on the prompt engineering, the type of questions that comes uh, into your AI system. So you can collect capture all those.
[00:27:00] Prompts and you can then feed it into uh, an agent. Agent can then help you to go and update your data fabric so it can help you to not only uh build create the building block. It can also start enriching and build some Advanced capabilities to help your data fabric uh scale.
[00:27:17] And finally, Let's uh, look into some of the vendor landscape and how uh, data fabric is evolved over the past decade or so. Um, as you said, I think most DNA vendors, uh, they allow the vision of data fabric, but 1 of the bigger challenges I think they don't like the integration work because when you look at the different I call the multi-layer cake, how I how they can kind of build all 9 of them together to call themselves. I think some vendors today, they kind of Market themselves.
[00:27:45] The data fabric vendor. But when you start zooming to it, as you said, when you look at that 9 or cake, maybe they have a stronger Suite on a couple of them, but then obviously, they missed the other layer. Sometimes they work with other vendors to help support the gaps that they have. Because, uh, but the key issue is that I think most of them are challenged because of the metadata maturity. That's where the biggest challenges.
[00:28:07] Um, when you look into the evolution of
[00:28:10] how the data Fabric and even when you look at the data platform ecosystem, um I want to start with the on the left back. I would say in early 2020s, when organizations are moving to the cloud, they were always picking the best of the breed Technologies. Okay? Which? Which is the best cloud vendor, which is the best data warehouse. Vendor, who is the best ETL?
[00:28:30] Gender, who is the best bi or analytic spender, and they started kind of putting together because for 2 Reasons, 1 is obviously they want to create the best of the breed solution. But through the process they also want to have a perception that okay? I want to have the freedom of choice so that I'm not locked into 1 vendor so that I can interoperability, I can switch them. But the reality as you can see here it leads to very bad integration because now uh because a cannot talk to be we cannot and they all have a their own metadata so metadata are completely disjoint which makes it harder. Uh where you have multiple tools with overlapping capabilities that help you to build a lot of redundancies.
[00:29:08] That's when data fabric architecture, really? Start making sense and then people start kind of building more like a layer build. What a layer build is.
[00:29:15] Okay, I'm going to have 1 vendor, which does all the integration work, whether I'm doing CDC or batch or uh. So I'm going to have 1 integration, vendor 1 data, vendor 1, uh, analytics vendor on 1 AA, vendor. So but obviously, it helps you to build that Foundation because you can take each of those layers and you can have, but then it becomes also becoming much harder to build. And that's when I'll say last, 2, 3 years, 4 years, we are seeing more and more converged data management platforms. Um, and not a name few vendors. You can see like many vendors now. They offer the combined capabilities. Uh, so where they can, for example, you can take a Microsoft or AWS, or any hyperscalers, or, even when you look into vendors, like isvs, like sap or data bricks,
[00:30:00] Or snowflake. Now they are kind of start building. They are no longer no longer just provide a data management platform. They also now have a wide variety of, uh, CH. So they, they have ETL tools. Now, they have some sort of an aib, a capabilities. Uh, they also have the ability for you to do metadata management through their own catalog. So so where they are trying to bring those different components together to help more like a platform like experience, uh, which helps you to minimize lot of integration. So so that because they are interoperable. Uh, some vendors allows you to operate automatically, replicate data between your operational to analytical. So it provides it minimize a lot of integration so you don't have to do too many pipeline management uh but then we also know that
[00:30:42] Capabilities are not same.
[00:30:45] Some vendors. They have very strong data management but then they probably have a very weak reporting and other vendors have a strong reporting but they have weak data management. Another vendor may have a strong integration but they have poor data management. So that's the and then the vendor locking is another concern. But what we think as an ideal state would be to have
[00:31:03] The interoperability where I can build using agents, where I can build, uh, those say integration. And I have the flexibility to deploy in any platform whether that's platform vendor a or platform vendor B platform and C, that's where we are striving towards. So that you can swap off or interoperate with 1 V to the other that we call them. As a desired State, the market is had a lot of resistance for the last 10 years. Now, we are seeing things are starting to open up.
[00:31:30] Especially with AI and, uh, simp, simple example, I can think of is if you look at like Open Table, formats is a good example. Like a lot of vendors are now supporting open table formats. Uh, a lot of it is now supporting open catalog. Um so where you can interoperability you don't have to copy data from 1 data management, to another data management. If I, if I have data in Snowflake I can consume that from my data bricks without me copying it. I can do a zero copy access through Open Table format with cataloging. So it's slowly started evolving. So that's more from a metadata. So again, metadata becomes the foundation for your data fabric. So longer term, which help you to seamlessly interoperability not just your data but also your application. So that's what we call as future State. Um, so the market uh, convert
[00:32:15] Ologist platform as well as integrated package. So it kind of supports both options. So you can have a converge data management platform which will help you to have vendor lock in, or you can have, uh, data fabric that can provide integrated package version.
[00:32:28] As far as the vendor landscape, you can see you have 3 categories of vendor. I would say the first 1, all we call this application providers. Um, uh, who are extending the data management Market with dedicated platforms without losing Downstream, uh, support for any third parties. And then you have the cloud service provider like the 1 on number 2, uh their their offer obviously in Native pre-integrated data management capabilities. So it help you to eliminate lot of integration so that they provide you out of the box capabilities for those and then finally you have
[00:33:00] The isvs which call them as independent software vendors, they offer Standalone converge data management. Uh, they also provide pre-integrated capabilities. The key differences may be the number of
[00:33:12] Tools and are probably limited but for a lot of organization that may be adequate for them to, um, to work on the data. But the key aspects, to all, 3 of them is that, if you look at why you have these 3 different things because each 1 of those vendors now, they are trying to converge their capabilities, through metadata because metadata becomes the foundation. So right now, there is no inner operability that exists between them. So if I build something in sap, I cannot see. Run it in.
[00:33:41] Then not or in, or in Google, but that's kind of where we are.
[00:33:45] Seeing the market is slowly shifting with the metadata in a probability. That's starting becomes a foundation.
[00:33:52] When it comes to data fabric, should I buy or build? Um, the answer is it's a very hard answer because when you look into buy option, obviously it leverages a lot of the out of the box support but then it gives you faster adoption. Uh, but then on the contrary when you do build option, it gives you more option to innovate because you can do things that are that are not limited by that vendor. So it gives you complete control over technology stack. So I would say both has the same motivation but as different paths so where how the technology is moving so fast today. So it's it's very hard to kind of determine what makes the the
[00:34:30] Perfect sense with that. So here are some of the recommended research. I would encourage you to read um related to data Fabric and then here is the link to the survey. Uh, if you're interested in participating, thank you so much.