[00:00:04] Welcome.
[00:00:05] Hopefully you had a great morning watching the keynote and now we're going to get into the real heart of the content in the conference and uh, know better place to start than AI agents. Um, this is likely the most difficult area of AI but it's also going to likely be the most rewarding. Hence, the title AI agents, quantifying the value and the cost.
[00:00:31] So, most people when they start uh uh approaching me and talking about Ai and agentic, they feel like they're behind. So I thought I'd start the presentation by showing you a few slides of data of where we are.
[00:00:45] The first 1 is really, um, a poll that, uh, we just took that this is from February of 2025 toward the end of February, actually. And we asked people, if you can't see the top there, how would you characterize the? Your agentic AI phase? Where is your organization today? Um, so lots of people have not started. Um, they're an exploration mode or piloting mode. When you add up those first 3 numbers, you'll see that, uh, 87% are not put something into production so only 8% of clients have actually put something into production and I've met many clients, I actually interviewed a a very large, uh, online retailer in Europe.
[00:01:28] It's actually based in Germany.
[00:01:30] And this gentleman showed us what his team was doing and he was showing all of the Gartner analysts very techy Gartner analysts um all of these great things that they built and then he wanted to have a conversation with me because I cover uh the cost side and the value side of of a gentic. And he said I'm not going to put these things in production.
[00:01:52] And I said, well, why? And he said, well I want you to check my math and tell me if this is correct and he said, uh, and I looked at it and he had done a pretty good job of calculating, not just the initial costs, but the ongoing recurring costs and basically the cost curves are so erratic in uh agentic that it didn't feel comfortable putting in production because
[00:02:15] He felt like in a year. This might be a black hole of spending.
[00:02:19] Um, and so those are the kinds of stories that you hear. The second reason I didn't put him in a production, is because of, he had the skill sets for people to build them. He wasn't sure that he had the skill sets, or the numbers of people that he needed to manage them, um, in terms of the things that they built. So those were the 2 big areas. So it isn't so there's for many reasons that you get this 8% number, but if you feel like you're behind, hopefully this will give you a little bit of comfort, a little more data, we ask people what's your investment posture and it isn't like AI when AI first came out in, you know, and people started in, uh, uh, November of uh, 2022. Um,
[00:03:00] And people were jumping in and and buying a lot of things and even with Genai, when you look at a genetics. So this is very specific to a genetic. People are still in this kind of conservative mode and then we further asked kind of what what your plans for the next 6 months. Um, and uh, 6 months, 12 months, 18 months. And again you'll see people are sort of um still uh cautiously optimistic uh about what they're doing. And then finally, we asked, where are you doing this? What which business functions. So no surprise, this was very similar to Genai um, where people in customer service, people in marketing people who are in sales. So the customer facing sort of functions that are most outward.
[00:03:45] Dealing the organization. Um, so that's about 44%. And then, um, where we're seeing the biggest increase is actually, in the, it teams in the, um, in the applications teams and the infrastructure and operations teams.
[00:03:59] So that's kind of a a snapshot of where we are with the data. Now I want to sort of talk about and give you my synopsis of what we're seeing from the vendor space and I'm not going to go into detail about the vendors. But I wanted to highlight something very, very important because I see a lot of demos um on agenda AI
[00:04:20] So this is a slide that was created by Eric Beno, Peter Dunham or these are analysts that are doing work called the anatomy of an agent. Really
[00:04:30] Exploring the underlying technical elements of an agent and in their framework where they talk about it. There's 3, very specific things that they sort of said, well, what's really happening when we're shifting from just AI or gen, AI over to a gentic. And so we're trying to do these 3 things which is you're trying to look at things that require strong supervision and move them along this. You know, Continuum of acting autonomously. You want to take things that are relatively simple tasks, that could be done and try to move them to much more complex, not just tasks, but entire processes. And then you're trying to drive from very static Behavior, where you have to tell it if this happens? Then do this, if that happens, then do this.
[00:05:15] Um, you want it to actually have adaptable Behavior because that's kind of, um, how lots of our business processes work. You don't want all the exceptions to, to, to jump out there. You want it to actually address these. So I took these 3 and I superimpose them and said, kind of where are we as the vendors? And the marketplace is actually developing and putting in R&D and there's sort of, you know, the starting point the near term and the long term of where we want to get along the Spectrum. So that's all good. These are the 3 biggest areas, when I talk to any of the vendors that tell talk to me about agentic that they, you know, I say, well, what are you investing in? And they show me all these cool things and these are the 3 things. But if I was a CIO, if I was
[00:06:00] The head of data analytics. If I was actually the CEO of an organization, I have to worry about more than just this
[00:06:07] When they show us these cool demos, um, the 2 things that they always kind of, they show an example, and they just sort of say, oh yes, if you're, you know, doing this environment that environment and they sort of simulate and kind of showcase an environment. But when you talk to a real client, like many of you in the audience and you ask them about their environment, it's quite complicated. There isn't just 1 sort of area when they talk about their architecture and certainly not 1 Thing associated with their data. And so when you talk about their data and that 1 doesn't go along a Continuum because people are in different places but they you're talking about things like structure.
[00:06:45] Data unstructured data that belong, the velocity of the data, the volume of the data, what I call the viscosity of the data, are you actually storing video? Are you storing? You know, um, brain scans MRIs, are you blood work? All kinds of different things, that is very viscous data, um, and all of those kinds of things. This is very unique for each organization and when you look at the authentic platforms and you look at what they're doing, they just sort of assume this away, but this is actually quite difficult. And something that if you are the CIO, if you are the head of data analytics, this is what you're worried about. But there every single demo that I've seen is also missing this
[00:07:27] the top layer, which is the vertical,
[00:07:30] Localization of the solution.
[00:07:32] So there's very, very little R&D that I see, so far. Now this has been true, and I've been at Gartner 25 years, this has been true for all kinds of solutions. So way back when, when we're looking at Oracle and, and, uh, sap and service now, and all of these kinds of s, uh, sales force, all these packages over time, they had verticalized solution, there wasn't the first thing that they came out with. So I do think over time this will happen, but this is not there yet. So guess what? You have to build it and you have to pay for it and you have to maintain it. And actually of all of those 3 things, the maintaining part is 1 of the reasons that
[00:08:15] We love to use third-party vendors because they are often maintaining these things especially when you get into regulatory areas and things like that. So you want to bear this in mind of this is the kind of like landscape or Marketplace that you're looking at. It's not the paint. The negative picture is to actually paint the realistic picture. The 1 other thing that the vendors today are not doing that, you'll see in in detail, in this in the slide deck that I'm going to in a few slides. Later is the monitoring tools. How much each of these things is going to cost in ways that you can actually use in order to figure out your own cost. So that is the other part that you actually have to spend a lot of time and energy on.
[00:09:00] And hence, we will jump into the presentation. I'll start by showing you a case study, how many people know if you're in financial services, what lazy debt is. Um, this is debt that by, um, in financial services terms that often, um, clients don't pay back. So, if you take out a loan or all these kinds of things, this is in the United States, but also worldwide. There's a multi-trillion dollar problem. Um, and so there's a there's 1, uh, company in South Africa, um, among the many, but 1 of the things they do is they specialize in collecting this debt. So this company is called Newton.
[00:09:36] And Newton 1 of the things that they've done is. They've built this very cool. A aent solution called Zoe.
[00:09:44] and 1 of,
[00:09:45] Of the interesting things about, uh, Newton in this, you know, furtherance of collection of debt, um, is they have over 1 million um, accounts or customers if you will and they actually call those customers. If you know anything about collections, they're calling them many times a week, many times a month, so of the 1 million customers. They're probably making tens of millions of outbound reaches C. Uh, either emails, um, texts or if you will, um, phone calls. And so, therefore, they do a lot of volume. So 1 of the things that they did is they wanted to obviously increase their Collections and reduce their headcount, which many organizations want to do. So they delay, they developed Zoe.
[00:10:30] And the initial focus of Zoe was to take the low complexity sort of collections that were handled by humans and move the high complexity, or most of the high complexity solutions to the humans. And they wanted to operate at a higher or better performance level than the humans, and that just isn't making the call or collecting the money. It's actually the real return. Um, and so they built this, you know, pretty great, you know, tool.
[00:10:58] so for those who are interested in some of the technical elements I've just summarized them here, I'm not going to go into the details but this case study was actually done by Rita Salam who's here at the conference but 1 of the things that they did in constructing, this is they
[00:11:15] Sort of how to do data switching from a batch to a real time. They, they took a very modular approach because of how agents actually store and cache the information. So they wanted a chunk the conversations because the conversations are millions of them and they get into a lot of sort of detail, they wanted to really reduce the latency. Um and therefore they leverage you know sort of prompt caching and they actually did not have a semantic model because of the complexity of this particular process um and then they did it you know they used smaller language models again because of the way they wanted to architect it. And finally for those of you know they put in a new tofan structure which the reason I'm pointing that out
[00:12:00] It's expensive. So when you add up all of this, it was quite expensive to do this. Um, in fact, if you look at the financials of this organization on many of their strategies, they've spent over 10% of their revenue in order to make investments like this. So it's quite a big expense. So, what did they get?
[00:12:18] They got 3,000 to uh reduction of headcount from 3,000 to 800. I happened to talk to this uh client just 2 weeks ago again. Uh they called me for an increase and they said we even further got better numbers than this but the other great business result that they got was they had a 20% Improvement in collections. Um, and so, those were some of the benefits but if you sort of, now look at the, um, total
[00:12:45] Right. So I'm just sort of showing the headcount there where they increased, um, on the revenue side and they decreased the headcount
[00:12:52] But they did not get Improvement in their margins. Well just repeat. They did not get Improvement in their margins. Um, so this was by many, uh, accounts very, very successful. So, what does this really buying them? What is buying them? Is because their operate on on a call center structure when you actually want to, uh, you know, sort of increase your number of clients or increase your business. They don't have to open another brick and mortar, they don't have to get another call center, the real estate, the telefony all the headcount, so their ability to um, scale just change dramatically.
[00:13:30] They also mostly did um clients that were in English and now with this agentic AI that could actually go to this multi language capability.
[00:13:39] But the struggle with their agentic solution is 1 of their key assumptions that they made is they're going to bend the cost curve down. They're kind of counting on certain things like tokenization and other things to go down in order to maintain, um, this level of thing this level of their agentic solution. And so, that's a big struggle. And that's uh, a quintessential example of what's happening when people Implement agentic Solutions, the cost line is extremely erratic. The total cost of ownership the ongoing costs after
[00:14:15] You after you implemented is where you really have to spend most of your time thinking through what this is what this is going to entail. Um so 70% of a genetic use cases are going to fail for uh delivering expected value due to the underinvestment in foundations. That is the change management that is the data and the models underneath that is the governance. Um, and that is um, assessing the total cost of ownership. Those are the biggest reasons that we see. Um, in addition to sort of poor execution, what do we mean by that? When you're looking at and and implementing agentic, it's more than ever this connection between the business functions.
[00:15:00] And the it and the data people really speaking the same language and what we often call at Gartner Fusion teams, really working in a way where your understanding the business process workflow and that's really what you're automating. You're not automating the existing workflow. You're automating. The new reimagined workflow of how this is going to work. Um, so what we did is we to start of start to now dive into more and more of the detail, we looked at the cost of agents and I start with a graphic to just sort of give you um, sort of a mental picture of how this is going to work. So if you look at the vertical axis here, this number is the complexity and of of the actual workflow and the number of reasoning.
[00:15:45] Steps that you need. Um so the function it's a function of reasoning is is the 1 varieties. Um and so as the length and the complexity of the agent task sort of increases so does the potential for higher value.
[00:16:08] Now, the horizontal axis is the total cost per agentic workflow. So, as you see, simple basic Q&A is sort of lower value, and it's a fairly simple task. And you go on to the big 1 that a lot of people ask about is either personalized support or some level of customer. Support is sort of in the middle there and as you keep going on, you know, people
[00:16:30] We'll talk about fully autonomous, you know, sort of, um, things like negotiations, and things like that, where you have a lot of back and forth going on that has the highest sort of value, um, because that's taking out, um, the Lo largest amount of elapsed time, latency cycle time. And uh, here therefore cost in the equation and increases sort of customer satisfaction. So on the right hand side that axis that we put in is uh Gartner sort of value measure. We talk about 3 SS of value. 1 level, is we call defend the second 1. We call extend and the third we call up up end, we use that in a lot of our research defend is where you are at competitive, parity, you're doing what everybody?
[00:17:15] Else in your industry must do to keep up. So it's like the minimum level bar of things that you have to do.
[00:17:22] The second 1, which is extend. That's where you have competitive advantage, that's where you can actually use your competitive advantage to um, change your offering in terms of and be competitive on price on speed on quality on all of those things. And then the last 1 we call up end. That's where you're actually changing your business model and you could offer products or services that you never offered before.
[00:17:45] So this is kind of the main sort of structure and now we're going to get into the details. Now we're going to get into what are all the critical cost components and then we're going to get into value. And then we're going to talk about how you manage those costs on an ongoing basis.
[00:18:00] And finally, how do you maximize, how do you use that to maximize value?
[00:18:03] So, when we get into the cost components, we have, uh, Gartner on our, on our website, we have um, several different tools. And we have a cost calculator. We have a value calculator and it's been brought all together to sort of show you. How do you compare show a value curve and a cost curve. So it gives you all kinds of results. But when we presented at a conference or more importantly, when we're presenting it to a c Suite like a CEO a CFO, we want them to just not get into spreadsheets and dashboards and all of that we want to show them how to visualize it and we're trying to tell them what are the components you're paying for. So you're paying for the core application which includes if it's custom,
[00:18:45] The build the governance, all of those things are in here. Um the integration all of those costs are in there. You're adding to that the cost of the model and you know most people are not building their own models but you need to invest in pre-training the model fine-tuning the model all of that is the cost is in here then you're adding to that the compute cost and this is whether you actually are using a hyperscaler you have on premises some combination thereof. Um but all the compute costs are in there. So all the technical infrastructure and then you're adding to that the data and many of you are very familiar with this. This. So this is everything from. I need to the hygiene of the data. I need to clean it up where I'm going to store the data.
[00:19:30] The curation of the data, all of the things around. Um, the data costs are in here,
[00:19:36] Now, we have, um, the users. So if you're buying some SAS tool, the Poo, the Poo per user cost is in here. We also have people who inside this particular, um category, they also are putting in change management and that drives this number up by you know, significant amounts. Um, so we, we're looking at 4 to 6 times, what you were spending in a previous project. If you were doing things like Erp and you factored in some number, these numbers are 4 to 6 times that for a change management. Adoption and all of those elements. If you choose to put it in this bucket, you can put it in other buckets as well.
[00:20:15] Now if you look this last uh call this last sort of triangle actually has a multiplication sign and that's because inference costs are by far the biggest costs that are actually driving all of these things. So now when you look at this whole thing, um imagine you're like a mortgage company and your underwriting loans and you want to put an agent in front and help reduce, you know, all your Document Handling and your processing and you want to go from 2 months to 2 weeks in this 1 scenario. You could be leveraging sort of the apis of Claude, or chat, TBT, or some of these tools. Or in another scenario, you could be building part of that. When you do that, you're switching the cost from in.
[00:21:00] Into compute. Um, and so depending on how you architect it, and how many variables you choose, uh, to look at your ability and your architecture actually defines a lot of how these costs shift and ebb and flow. And what has to happen is you have to explain a lot of that to your developers. You have to work very closely with it. You have to work very closely with your data team in order to choose the right architecture and the right structure. So you have to do a lot of, um, piloting and testing to understand what's the right architecture for this process for this task. So, it isn't sort of a 1 size, fits all, and that's what makes this quite difficult when we did.
[00:21:45] A lot of analysis, 1 of the things that happens is, as you're doing this, you have to build in things to Monitor and understand these costs because the vendors are not giving you these numbers, they're giving you different numbers that are extrapolations but they're not going to give you the direct um sort of number. And so what the biggest items are that are, impacting your costs are your decision or process workflow, the size of your context prompts. And for those of you who are data people in here, how you've uh organized and built your data Fabric and build your your architecture, um directly impacts those context prompts, um your deployment model, how you've chosen to um, pick and
[00:22:30] Choose all of those deployment areas, the licensing model, all of those things, you know, factor in to these to this equation. Um, and so it isn't as simple. Um, and so therefore we uh, want you to use some kind of recurring calculator, that you're doing all the different calculations on the cost. So you could figure out the best way to optimize a lot of these different variables. Um, we do think that those clients that are doing this. Well and this what we've seen is that if you are, for example, prioritizing you know, semantics in your AI ready data. So if you take in uh roxan and Mark buyer, and a number of our data analysts are here, if you go to any of those presentations where they talk about, what is
[00:23:15] Is AI, ready data? What are the variables in AI ready data and how do you optimize them? Those clients that focus on the semantic piece? They are their accuracy is going up by 80% and they're actually able to manage these costs um, lower by 60%. So that's 1 of the variables. When we looked at all of these variables,
[00:23:34] Um, 1 of the things that we did, after the hundreds of use cases, that we did, is we were telling Executives, what are the most volatile variables. The 3, most volatile in in order are inference. Number 1 compute is number 2 and data is number 3.
[00:23:51] If you're not actually really doing a great job of those 3, you could go away for the weekend and you could come back and you can gone over budget by 500.
[00:24:00] 100 to 100 to 1,000%.
[00:24:02] 500 to 100%. That is not an exaggeration and if you're not monitoring these things on an hourly and daily basis, that's how you know what's going on. And I'm going to show you some monitoring sort of metrics that we think are um good to do.
[00:24:18] So now we're going to sort of jump into, okay? I've looked at how my cost structure is going to work. How do I now think about and manage my costs? Um and what are the variables that I need? And how do I need to understand all of this? So 1 way that we we wanted to explain this to clients is people sort of. First of all, you want to look at what your headcount is doing now and what you're delivering in terms of output. So, 1 simple way that I sort of Drew this is I said
[00:24:45] Imagine you're the head of data and analytics and you provide lots and lots of um, Services into your internal customers. And so 1 of the ways you could do that and what you've been bound by for years, is your human capability. So imagine your headcount is 100 FTE or 50 or 500, whatever number of people that you have, that's your vertical axis. And then 1 way that you could think about it is, I can't do everything. So I'm going to focus on the things that the highest highest risk or highest visibility. And so I'm going to have my people, my DNA team, my immediate team, execute those, I'm going to consult some of our people, on some of those, I'm going to guide them or advise them or I'm going to provide some self-service.
[00:25:30] Now, this was a historic model. This slide is quite, uh, dated at Gartner. And what often happens is this, you get more and more requests and you have to say no to the business. Um, because or you have to tell them, get in line and I'll give you that in 6 months or a year. Um, so people don't like that. So people go out and do that. So they try to increase, self-service, we know that we've shown that. That doesn't work very well in DNA especially when you go to the higher risk areas. Um, so what now has happened is, wow. Okay, now I have agents. Now, I can add, I can change my vertical axis, I can add capability. So, now, all of a sudden I've added capability, I've added capacity. So what would I do? Um,
[00:26:15] And some of its autonomous, and some of it is augmented.
[00:26:18] Um, but essentially, the tendency is to say, wow, let me just keep increasing this. Let me just keep adding more and more agents. Do not do that.
[00:26:29] That is actually the worst thing that you could do. And the reason is, is when we've looked at these cost curves an agent is not an agent is not an agent and 1 agent does not equal 1 FTE. So people keep saying, well I got rid of, I want to get rid of a 100 people and I'm going to add a 100 agents know that is not at all how it works. Um, you could actually do 1 process with a single agent, where you're stacking everything in there, you could do it multiple agents or a larger agent or you.
[00:27:00] You can do it with um, many different agents and that changes the cost structure dramatically. And there isn't this 1 way where we could just. I could show you this 1 slide. Here's how you can construct it. The best. It's very, very dependent on your process on your workflow. A customer service process is very different from accounts, payable is very different from, um, you know, um things like um sales, um negotiations. All these kinds of things are so different, but the item that I, you know, highlighted in Orange is in the 2500 that I've been and I've been doing a lot of of business cases for clients over the years. The total cost of ownership of a gentic AI is the largest standard deviation. We've
[00:27:45] Ever seen in the history of technology and that is not an exaggeration. So it is very, very incumbent on you to really come up with a good understanding of what your cost is not just for the initial implementation, but what is it going to cost on a recurring? Sort of basis based on the architecture and you don't do this 1 time. You actually have to do this function by function or process by process as your, you know, deciding what? You're going to automate. This is what makes it extremely difficult.
[00:28:17] So this is a a a standard sort of slide that we create or help our clients create. This is a gen AI slide that was created. Um and this is published on our, on our website and it's for 1 of the most
[00:28:30] Common use cases customer support. So we have a version of this as a buy. We have a build. We have all these things and we use our cost calculator to calculate the cost. If you see on the upper right, we do on the sorry on the far, right? Um and we do a low range, a high range underneath the spreadsheet if you download it. Um, you'll see all of the variables. What vendors did we use? What was the price? What was the assumptions of the kpis for the value and all of that, and we figure out the break even point. When we apply this to agentic, and we do many different cases that cost. Curve is very, very erratic. So it's the first time I've seen where the cost curve is harder to calculate than the value curve on some of these uh elements
[00:29:15] And so when it's erratic like that, you actually have to do a lot more work and establish your version of your template. So, when we do that, well, 1 of the things that we found
[00:29:26] Is what we call this qu quadratic complexity problem. That happens. So, 1 of the things that agents do is sometimes they need to pull forward memory from a previous step that exponentially adds to 1 of those to the input tokens. Another thing is, if you have a pairwise problem where the agents need to talk to each other, that could also, you know, depending on how you con you construct it, you could have like a recurs, a recursive agent and that's the 1 where if you leave it running over the weekend you know you can like sort of blow your budget because it's run its too.
[00:30:00] All kinds of different things. Um, so the cost increases based on the square of the input size now translation. And, you know, English is, that's a massive, massive increase, um, of cost depending on how you architected. So the real question is kind of how do you start to optimize that? How do you look at optimization techniques? Well, you could optimize the conversation flow, you can compress the history, you could summarize things in a different way. So you don't have to keep storing everything or cashing in, you can actually create sub agents, you can cache certain responses or more importantly. Um, the CFOs that I talk about is you could put in things and other agents that limit
[00:30:44] Um, the SP.
[00:30:45] And they actually say, if you reach this point don't continue or don't go forward. So you could put what we call finops, or financial operations inside the tools um in order to figure that out. So this is this is the core sort of element that, you know, you have to look at all these different variables and this is what creates it what we found is, despite all of these different elements. The single biggest thing that we know, and we've empirically been able to prove, we did 4 different studies. This is 1 of them. That is actually showing that those clients that spend more on what we call the foundation are going to get better business outcomes. What does that mean? Um, it means foundations means those clients that are
[00:31:30] Working on the process workflows that are working on the data, the governance, the trust, and all of these different elements. They're the ones that are actually going to do the best in this scenario. So, these are some of the metrics that you need to create in order to manage this. So I'll leave you with these key metrics 1 is the agent value. Multiple, this is your specific calculation and this is based on your process, right? So the higher the better, so this is you're trying to figure out how much value was generated per agent cost.
[00:32:05] No, vendor will give you this. This is why you have to derive this 1 of the ways that you do that is you want to figure out what is your agent cost per complete.
[00:32:15] Task. So this is estimating, the total cost required every time you either complete a task or a series of tasks, um, and then you want to look at accuracy. So you want to look at your context, you know, sort of memory optimization score. This is the average number of input tokens required per each completed task. Sorry, accuracy is a, is the next 1. Um, you want to look at your effective cost at certain accuracy levels, these are metrics that we co-created with clients and then we go through their implementations in order to figure out, um, how they're going to monitor this on an ongoing basis. So they don't fall into that big total cost of ownership trap. It sounds like a lot.
[00:33:00] It is initially a big setup cost to do this. And so the biggest problem in sort of maximizing value is this concept of where which process did I apply it to and how did I get to that point? Um, so I'll sort of fast forward into most of the time we all started with labor Arbitrage where we're looking at headcount, we're way past the stage. We are actually now went to speed where we did a lot of automation with RPA and all these things. And this is where we are now where you're trying to do process Arbitrage, you're actually trying to deliver change the transform, what you're delivering? And then you get to business model Arbitrage. So this is where you're doing it better.
[00:33:45] Faster sheeper, but more resiliently. And so this is the curve, when you pick items that are higher up on this curve, for agentic AI, you are forced to do this. You are forced to stop focusing on on inputs on how much headcount do I have? How much this do I have? How much all of these inputs into the process and you're more, much more focused on how am I going to get more of an outcome based solution?
[00:34:14] So, with that, I thank you for all your time. I'll be here for the rest of the session and down at the 1-on-1 booth, enjoy the conference.