[00:00:05] Welcome.
[00:00:06] Welcome to the passionate group, the group that's here on the last day last afternoon. Um, and so for those of you who are listening to the replay and you hit replay, you're sitting on your sofa, you're missing the energy in this group.
[00:00:20] Um, and so, yes. Absolutely. And for those of you who know me, I've been with Gartner about 25 years and I've done a lot of presentations. This is my fourth 1 at the session, I rarely not wear my jacket. I always wear a jacket, um, especially when I'm in Europe. Um, and so, um, I've taken off my jacket and, you know, really have a lot of energy here because in this session,
[00:00:45] We're actually talking about humans, we're talking about headcount and we are going beyond the hype. So take your jackets off, roll up your sleeves, right. We're going beyond the hype and we're going to talk about ai's impact on headcount and business value and value creation. And so I'm going to jump in but I will tell you that some of these slides when you see the data, it's taken us months to actually get this data and on in 2025, this was 1 of the most frequently asked questions that I got. Which AI project should I do. So I could get rid of hit count or 1 Baht 1 agent to 1 uh to uh 1 head count. What does that all mean? And what you'll really find out and we'll show you empirically
[00:01:30] With data is that you can't really look at humans that way.
[00:01:34] Um, and you really have to understand passionately your business, and so I'm going to walk you through that.
[00:01:41] So we're going to start off with a very, um, sort of a spectrum that I created. And I purposely on the bottom did not include names of vendors or very specific technology because I wanted you to understand some of the concepts, right? So on the bottom, as you're looking at, this Gartner has kind of come up with these categories, right? We call them everyday Ai and those are often tools. Um, so they are things like Microsoft 365, co-pilot coding assistance, all the different tools. But then, as you start gradually moving,
[00:02:15] From left to right? What you're really looking at is Solutions. So, as we keep going, what you're trying to do is move from everyday AI to augmenting, humans to semi-autonomous, and autonomous, and then, finally, you know, the big bad word around a genetic or agency, right? And so that's 1 component of this, and the color coding that you see sort of the blue to the bright. Orange is really indicative of this. And what this is actually showing is that, when you're on the far left, a preponderance of the work load, is actually done by, in this case humans, and then a much smaller portion of the workload is done by the machines. And as you keep moving from left to right, you get to the far far end.
[00:03:00] And and more of the work is done by the machines and um, less of the work is done by humans. So when you look at this, the first thing I want you to notice is the vertical axis when we did this data, when we did this analysis and we analyze this data, we were normalizing. The same workloads. So we were sort of looking at, okay? What does it take to process 1,000? Invoices or 10,000 claims or, you know, 5,000 mortgages or bank loans, right? So, as as we were looking at the data, it was important in the in the beginning that you keep a standardized workload so that you could measure this
[00:03:36] uh, so as we did that,
[00:03:39] 1 of the first things I, I wanted to highlight is where are we now in 2026 in May of
[00:03:45] 2026, it's much more of a bell curve. Um, and 1 of the reasons is everybody's talking about a gentic, but not that many people are doing a gentic.
[00:03:55] So here's the data about who's actually doing a gentic. So, this is from February 2025, February 25th, to be exact. Um, I did a very large, you know, webinar and I took a poll. So for those who can't see this in the back, there's over 3,300 people that we pulled, and all of them were Business Leaders. Most of them were VPS and cios but there was a pretty wide disparity of people, um, from many different geographies and I asked them this question about kind of where are you in your agentic, AI Journey, right? And if you look at what they're
[00:04:30] Doing and you sort of just to do the math for you, same numbers, right? 87%
[00:04:36] Um, have not put something into production so only 8% of clients have put things into production.
[00:04:43] And I've looked and I've asked many of the clients that were here, they said, yeah, that's about right? Um, and of those 8%. Um, the number of people that have gotten significant Roi is less than half of that, right? So it's actually very very early days around this. I'm not saying they should invest in agentic but you and you should do some exploration. But the reality of what's happening is it's much more of a bell curve. The largest opportunity for Value creation is actually in the
[00:05:15] Middle.
[00:05:16] Um so that's number 1 and why is that? It's really for 5 reasons, when I really like uncovered and sort of did some of the interviews behind the numbers and 1 of the reasons is risk.
[00:05:29] So people are much less risk averse, so they're not jumping into a genetic. The second 1 is sort of the maturity of the actual technology. It's still a lot of the vendors who are, you know, selling you a genetic platforms. They're still in the early stages and there's a lot of R&D and those who might have attended the session I did earlier this week, I sort of showed the data about where the vendors are investing. The other 1 is cost.
[00:05:54] Um, I did another session about the agentic cost and not just the initial cost.
[00:06:00] But the recurring costs the cost to manage and operate, agentic is actually quite inconsistent and erratic and difficult to actually forecast. So I do I met a client in Germany?
[00:06:14] And I was a very large online retailer. And he had developed these really cool uh, agentic Solutions. Uh, he also had a big budget um and 1 of the things he said to me is he wanted me to sort of check his mathematics on his numbers um and he basically for the total cost of ownership of running it and he basically took the decision not to put his agentic Solutions in production because he called it sort of a black hole of spending. He wasn't sure what was going to happen and the other 1 was
[00:06:45] He didn't have the skills. He had really good people that developed the solutions. But a lot of these developers did not want to be the ones that managed and operated, the solutions they wanted to do other cool things in other areas. So he's looking for, how am I going to guarantee that I could? You know, uh, nurture and feed the beast if you will and manage and operate. This is genetic solution. And then, the last 1 is the Readiness of the organization.
[00:07:12] So is the organization ready for this kind of change in terms of some of the ways that agentic operates in an autonomous, you know, sort of environment for specific tasks? So for those 5 reasons, um, most of the bell curve, this is a snapshot of where we are today.
[00:07:30] um so now I you notice when you I put up this slide now, the vertical axis has changed
[00:07:37] And the reason it's changed is we when we were looking at this data and we actually calculated um, dozens and dozens of use cases for clients and what they actually achieved. So we got a lot of client data and we were calculating or helping them calculate their Roi
[00:07:53] And 1 of the things that we came to find is we were looking at what were the biggest variables that impacted the ROI, and the number 1 variable was their willingness and the willingness of the Business Leaders to change their process. So, the degree of process change. Um, and so we put it on this kind of
[00:08:15] 3 point scale.
[00:08:16] So on the bottom was are were they willing to change their process by a little bit incrementally? I sort of call that amplify their process or will they were, they willing to go to the next level and be sort of, at a moderate level and sort of recalibrate their process or were they willing to really go all in and do like kind of a reset on their process?
[00:08:39] and I actually, when I was developing This research, I went and um, showed this preliminarily to about 10 clients,
[00:08:46] And a couple of the very large companies that saw this and they were, you know, we were looking at their data and making sure that this was correct. They were saying friend, there's a fourth 1, the fourth 1 was we just get rid of the process.
[00:09:00] And start all over again in a green field. And the reason some of these very large companies wanted to do that is their process was very brittle, and it was like, many, the company that actually originally came up with idea said, we've grown by acquisition, we have like 18, different companies, we Acquired. And this process is unrecognizable and it'll take us a year or more to convince everybody and agree and make the change. Why don't we just start with a green field example, right? It's not on the list here because we didn't have data for it because we didn't have a lot of clients that actually did that. Um but then when we did that we actually now said and we superimposed those, these kind of blue circles there and we were sort of saying who
[00:09:45] Got the biggest Roi and why? So yes, there are some 1 or 2, Cool examples of people that got triple digit benefits, but the scope was quite small.
[00:09:57] And so what we did find that was really important is those clients that kind of hovered or stayed down in this bottom area where they only were willing to change their process a little bit.
[00:10:08] even when they did very very interesting and developed some really impressive solutions, they actually got no Roi or negative
[00:10:19] so, unless you change the process and unless you change the workflow, unless you make the appropriate changes to the operating model,
[00:10:28] And you change the metrics of.
[00:10:30] The humans and you come up with the correct metrics for the machines, you're actually not going to get any blue circles there. You're not going to get a lot of Roi.
[00:10:39] Um, and in fact, you're going to have the opposite effect which is your CFO is going to come to you and say, we spent all this money on this solution and we didn't get, um, we didn't get value and so this is what makes all of these things really, really hard. It isn't just that the technology is hard and developing it and testing it and really thinking through all of the risks and doing that, it's that this connection between your business, people, your functional people and it data security, it really needs to be, we would call a fusion team.
[00:11:15] so now that you look at this, now is the big question, everyone asked me which is what happened to the headcount for these projects and here is what happened to the headcount
[00:11:25] when if you look at the example, the sort of the second Circle there,
[00:11:31] Where it's kind of right above where it says augment.
[00:11:34] Imagine you started in that place and the particular, uh, project that you were doing. Let's say you were processing a thousand invoices or 10,000 claims, right? And 80% of that workload was done by humans and 20% by machines.
[00:11:51] And now you implement a solution but you also made a significant change to your business process. What happens is
[00:12:00] Your Pie has grown.
[00:12:02] Now, if you are a back office function, meaning if you are in procurement in HR in finance, in it in software, in infrastructure in all of those functions, your uh, your in a function that does not generate Revenue.
[00:12:17] so when I say your pee has grown, what that means is, instead of processing 1,000, uh, transactions, you process 10,000
[00:12:26] Instead of processing 5,000 loans, you process, 50,000 loans. So if you're a midsize business, you might have a cap.
[00:12:34] On that, right? Because you say yeah I could process 50,000 loans but I don't have 50,000 loans, right? So we had to like normalize the data, but what you're actually now looking at is 20.
[00:12:45] 40% of that. New workload is now done by humans and 80% by the machines.
[00:12:52] So for those of us and so you have to be really careful that this is all percentages. So for those of you in the audience the question is is that more humans or less humans?
[00:13:02] And the answer is it depends, it could be more humans or less humans because when you have the bigger Pi, 20% of a larger Pi might in aggregate be more humans. So let's look a real example.
[00:13:17] So this is a company in South Africa that we spent some time with and interviewed actually read a Salam who's here at the conference. It was the 1 who interviewed the CEO of this organization. So this company is, um,
[00:13:30] They are sort of a service provider of what's called in the United States as lazy debt. And this is debt, that's often uncollectible or very, very hard to collect. So, this company buys the debt from different companies and they actually have 1 million active accounts and for every account on average, they call them thousands of times. They contact them many many times over the course of a year or 2 to try to continually collect the debt.
[00:13:57] So they have a lot of transactions and 1 of the things that they decided to do is they built Zoe which is an agent and 1 of their original goals with the agent, is to have Zoe um, do autonomously or highly autonomous semi-autonomous.
[00:14:15] Honestly do some of the work. So they moved the workload from the low complexity stuff to Zoe, and they moved the higher complexity stuff to their humans. Um, and so, you know, they actually spent quite a bit of money to build this, right? Because this is part of their Core Business. This isn't back office. This is really their Core Business of where they do collections.
[00:14:38] And this is a quick summary of some of the technology or what cost them so much money. And this was quite expensive. I'll sort of start from the bottom. They actually put in an entire new telefony structure, right? Um, then they, they were really focusing, more small language models because they wanted to break this thing up into chunks.
[00:15:00] They actually did not use a semantic model for a whole bunch of reasons in terms of how they wanted, how all of their transactions work. And when they analyze their workflow and the things that they needed to Cache, they had to like, actually architect it this way, but what their real Focus was was to reduce the latency. And so they put in, you know, prompt caching and all of those kinds of things. And then they really when you look at their solution behind the scenes, they went with a very modular approach where they were chunking the conversations right? And so this was very particular and then finally they did a pretty big part of investment in their data where they were doing sort of data switching from batch and they went to a different model. So this was in
[00:15:45] Received quite expensive. So, here's the results.
[00:15:48] They reduced their headcount initially between 3,000 call center agents to 800, ironically because our client of Gartner after we published this and wrote this. Um, I happened to actually speak to them. They called me for another question about 2 weeks ago, and I was just telling them. Hey, I'm going to be going to London. I'm going to be showing the slide and they said, yeah, yeah, we've actually reduced the number of headcount, even more.
[00:16:13] Um so they've been getting some headcount reduction and more importantly the business results they got a 20% Improvement in collections. Um and so their frequency of being able to do this and for a whole host of reasons, they got all these great results.
[00:16:29] so,
[00:16:30] The real benefit to them.
[00:16:32] So these are the initial results that you get in a single fiscal year. So when you reduce headcount, your benefit is in the same fiscal year. Next year, you start with your new headcount. Someone doesn't say, hey, Fran, uh, I remember 3 years ago, you had like 5,000 people, they ask you what you did last year, right? So headcount is a, is a 1 fiscal year benefit, but the big benefit that they got in terms of business outcome, is they now have moved or changed their business model every time they want to grow? They don't have to build a new call center, they don't have to get real estate. They don't have to do the brick and mortar. They don't have to hire people. They don't have to get new toy. They don't have to do all.
[00:17:15] All of that expense in order to scale up that was 1. Big benefit to them. The other 1 is they are in South Africa. Most of their work is actually done in English. Um, and
[00:17:27] They actually now because of the technology, they could actually pretty quickly do multilingual. So now they can actually buy debt, um, and you know service, a lot of other clients in different, uh geographies. But the other big thing that you see here
[00:17:44] And I'll now reveal the title of this slide which is they did not actually get margin Improvement.
[00:17:51] So this is an interview with the CEO and he's publicly stating. This is if you look up this company and their financials, this project did not improve their margins.
[00:17:59] Um,
[00:18:00] Um, and 1 of the reasons, is that last assumption that's on the bottom, right? Which is, they are in that agentic world, where it's very, very hard. As I said to predict um the total cost of ownership in year 2 3 4 5, they are making a big assumption that the curve. The cost curve is going to bend downward and tokenization is going to go down and some of their inputs are going to go down so it's a pretty big bet so this is 1 that we're going to be tracking but I just wanted to highlight to you that you know this is not all like a sure thing and you have to be really clear on what your benefits are. And so now this is an example where headcount went down
[00:18:40] But here's an example, where headcount went up?
[00:18:43] So this is a, a company.
[00:18:45] In Japan, they are chemical manufacturer. Are they actually discover new chemical compounds is what they do. And so if you look at their cost line on the bottom, after a lot of um, you know, analysis of the different business cases, they decided that they were actually going to build this solution. This, bespoke model in AI um and it was about 20 million dollars in US dollars, that it was costing them and as they got into it and they did a PC and then they did a pilot and they were doing all these different things. They realized we actually have to change the process.
[00:19:18] So they spent an additional 70 million more than 3 times what the AI cost. Um, they spend 70 million US Dollars um, in order to change.
[00:19:30] There are R&D process and this process is quite difficult for them, because the people that do this work Are Scientists, they're Engineers their data people. They're a lot of, you know, phds people with very Advanced degrees so they, of course, have because they're working in the chemical industry. Have very very uh, strict policies and procedures but there's also not a knowledge in people's heads, you know, and that is tacit knowledge versus explicit knowledge. And when you're trying to really deal with that kind of process, it's expensive, it's hard. Um, but they did do it and so they ended up spending around dollars, right? And now when you look at their uh return which is sort of summarized on the top row is they were
[00:20:15] Initially as of the writing of this, which was about a year ago. Um, they actually found 180 new chemical compounds. Um, and then their average is 1.5 million in Revenue in each. So they got a 3X reward.
[00:20:29] But now if you read the stuff on the right and since we're at the data and analytics Summit, you look at their data scientists. The number of data scientists actually grew from 34 to 83 and they expected it to double.
[00:20:43] After that.
[00:20:44] And so their headcount went up, not down. And the reason is, is that the value contribution per data scientists using this term using these tools, these AI tools actually was increasing so they could actually Bear the burden of more.
[00:21:00] Are people because they're generating more value creation per person. Um, and so these are, I've been collecting a lot of these different examples, right? These 2 are like really clear as to what's actually happening. And they illustrate the point that I was making, which is that when you are using these tools, the there is not a sort of a straight line between headcounts always going to go up or down. In fact, when you really think about it in many terms you really want more people in your process because you actually want to increase your output or your outcome. And so the more people that are in your process, the more you're generating, you know, sort of value. Um so 1 of the big
[00:21:45] Learnings from all of this, and the advice that we're giving clients is don't start with employee empowerment. Don't start with the question of do, you know, is he, how do I get rid of a 100 people or a thousand people? You know, you want to start with the process and you're going to work backward, um, in terms of figuring out what the impact is on the people. So, we sort of call this a paradigm shift, you know, from this left to right. And here's what it looks like.
[00:22:13] Imagine, I picked 3 processes that I hear a lot about the first 1 is procurement. The second 1 is a sales process. The third 1 is kyc. So for those who are in the banking industry, kyc stands for know, your customer,
[00:22:28] And in a typical very large.
[00:22:30] Bank. There are thousands of people I'm not exaggerating. There are thousands of people who touch this process in a bank. Um, so in a large Bank in the US, I asked 1 of the, um, the big Banks. It's like somewhere around 6,000 people touched this process. So imagine that orange that's there. Uh, floats back to 6,000 people.
[00:22:51] So now imagine we're sitting in a room and we're having this conversation and someone says I'm going to get rid of headcount and they say I'm going to get rid of 100 people.
[00:23:00] 500 people out of the 5,000, right? You actually have no idea. If you get rid of those 500 people, you will get the benefit of recouping, their salaries, in your p&l.
[00:23:12] but you have no idea whether you
[00:23:15] Truly are going to reduce latency or reduce cycle time or reduce error rate. Ultimately, whatever your factors are for your process. What you're trying to do is lower the marginal cost of delivery.
[00:23:28] And so sometimes when you get rid of 5 people 10 people or 100 people you might have almost zero impact or point. You know, 1 impact on the total marginal cost, everybody sort of looking at the salary cost but you what you really want to look at is the marginal cost of delivering the process from end to end. Right? What is the successful completion of the tasks through the technology or through the humans and what is that recurring, you know, level of rate. That's what's the
[00:24:00] Determining your cost because this is what lasts in perpetuity. This actually lasts in year 2 year 3 year 4 where you reset the bar, you know, around these things. So 1 of the things we tell people is
[00:24:14] You really need need to look at these 5 elements when you're thinking about what's going to happen to headcount, when you start with the process, the business people have to be able to tell the um it the AI team, the data team, the analytics team, they have to be able to tell them. Where is the real friction in the process? What is actually causing the marginal cost of delivery to go up? And the way that they do that is they have to be prepared to redesign the process to re
[00:24:45] I'm calibrated to reset it. As we saw in that slide, they also have to think about, hey, I have a centralized model, a decentralized model of Federated model. They actually have to look at how the execution happens and whether they have to revisit that shared Service Center or they have to revisit that Federated model and so it's not just your org chart it's how you execute that particular process and then they have to look at the actual humans and say. Okay now I'm going to implement uh an AI solution or an agentic solution. I need to figure out how am I going to upskill or reskill? The humans that do that task or tasks and you can use technology to do what we call experience compression.
[00:25:30] Experienced compression is where it took me 25 years to do certain things. While being an employee at Gartner, you can actually in you know with tools. You might be able to compress that into 10 years, right? And how do you change the experience level for people who are in an apprentice model learning? Then the big 1 is you have to change the metrics of the humans. So if you say me, 20 hours per week or per month in a task, my boss has to come and say, hey, I need you to produce new metrics. I need you to produce 3, more research notes or 5 more presentations. Um, so unless my metrics change, I'm actually not going to get or the company is not going to get the benefit of the value creation and the function.
[00:26:15] Teams. The business people also have to create the metrics of the machines. So, in that example, I said, well, now you have the ability to process 50,000 loans. Well, the business people might say, we don't have 50,000 loans, or we actually have a 100,000 loans. They actually have to set the required bar for the technology as well. And then finally, we have an entire body of research at Gartner around. Trust people think you can't measure trust. Yes, you can measure trust, and you're looking at trust across many different constituencies. The leadership in the company, the employees, your vendors, your partners, your customers, there's 6 or 7, The Regulators, you have to look at 6 or 7, different elements of trust and measure that.
[00:27:00] So these are the Big 5 things that are going to help you determine your headcount. And so there isn't this kind of simple formula that says if you make this AI investment you'll have this headcount reduction and it isn't this sort of simple Journey it is that journey of looking at what the processes and then figuring out the impact.
[00:27:23] so what actually happens, you know, said all this, what actually happened in 20 uh,
[00:27:29] 25, this happens over close to somewhere between 1.5 and 2 million. People were laid off about a million of them were in the United States and we of course got this question. Well, how much of this was attributed to
[00:27:45] AI. We did 2 different studies. Um, 1 is we actually downloaded and looked at earnings calls and we, um, didn't just upload them to an AI tool. We actually had people read them, but we also downloaded all the press releases where someone said for over 255 companies and actually read them and, and coded them. And we sort of said, how much of them were directly attributable to AI. We did it in June of 2025 for the first half of the year and then we did it again at the end of the year, this was the number less than 1% of all the layoffs were related to AI, because this is what really happens. What really so we, So based on this, I sort of started 2026 and said every 1 of us in this,
[00:28:30] Was in this kind of talent debt because every 1 of us was told if you had layoffs in your company, you were sort of said, oh yeah. Yeah, we laid those people off. Now, I want you to use AI to do the same amount or more work with less people. Right. So we almost have a mortgage if you will starting the year because here's what really occurred, if you think about what happens or what happens in, what I call a textbook scenario on paper is you actually sort of do your business case and then you, you know, execute and build the solution tested and all of that and then you transition
[00:29:05] Which includes doing all those things that I said about the process flow and all of that. And then you have to manage and operate the solution. So presumably if you do all that,
[00:29:15] You increase your money. You you know people sort of said I want to decrease my headcount but what really happened is a lot of CEOs came in so this is you know kind of what it should look like. You sort of lay out some money to do these things and then you get a big cash reward in the end um and then you sort of think you're going to reduce your headcount but what really happened is people put the cart before the horse or a lot of CEOs and leaders and what does that mean? They actually started and started laying off people.
[00:29:46] And when you do that,
[00:29:47] you can't really sequentially. Say oh I'm going to start now and do this correctly. I'm going to do the business case first and do all of that. No, they were sort of said, we laid off all these people. Now we need you to transition right away.
[00:30:00] We need you to actually do this. This is really hard when you do the switch and each of these you know uh rings that you see here. They look like they're the same size. What we actually found is that transition is somewhere between 4X and 6X larger than any Erp scenario you've ever done.
[00:30:20] So if you were calculating back in the day when you implemented sap or Oracle and said, well, this is how much change management and process change. I need, um, as a ratio of the total work effort, multiply that by 4 to 6X. And that's the minimum we've seen so far about transition. The other thing that actually happens is people have just dropped off the whole chart this notion of
[00:30:45] What happens after you go live?
[00:30:47] And this, for those people that know is 80% of the cost of the total life of the solution.
[00:30:54] And that has been true for many, many years. It is very true in AI. So people have even forgotten about what happens, what is it going to take to manage and operate this? So 1, you know, if you, if I summarize, what happened in 2025 is that, you know, the people laid off before the AI. And now, you know, you actually have to do things with an updated headcount.
[00:31:20] And so the idea is, are you really in a position now to start with the transition? And what does that really mean? Because the transition I put kind of
[00:31:30] 5 items. There are 5 Euros marks there because it's a big expense. It is the toughest part of what you have to do. And so that's why we think you should really go back, you know, to the basics. And the reason is when you do this
[00:31:48] Your uh, headcount.
[00:31:50] 1 year, 2 years 5 years. From now, some point in the future, you're not going to be able to do what the CEOs did last year, because your single biggest expense is not going to be people.
[00:32:01] So, your business cases as everyday passes and we move from this to that.
[00:32:08] In different forms in different processes. You're not going to be able to say, oh, I'm just going to lay off a bunch of people because your biggest
[00:32:15] Expense is not going to be people, so your business case is very quickly. Soon is going to be irreconcilable.
[00:32:22] Because you're not going to have really a good understanding of your total cost of ownership and that's like the big message because when we did this, what we found is everybody talks about technical debt.
[00:32:36] The actual biggest debt you have is process debt.
[00:32:40] The second biggest debt you have is Talent debt. So these are in a very specific order.
[00:32:45] These are in order of ranking, then your third biggest debt is data debt and then you get to architectural and Technical debt and depending on what, where you are on the regulatory side, that sort of, you know, moves
[00:33:00] So I put it at the bottom, so you're trying to move from debt to liquidity. You're actually trying to move to more liquidity in your process. More resilient processes more agile processes. And so that is the big message that you need to really focus on process first, in order to figure out your headcount implications.
[00:33:22] So with that, thank you all. Thank you for coming to the event. Um, have safe Journeys back.