[00:00:05] Hi, good afternoon. Uh, let's get started. Uh, today. Uh, we are going to cover uh, data management reference architecture and how it can be extended to support, AI ready data. Uh, just for the context uh, at Gartner, I'm part of the Gartner for Tech professionals team. Um, in Gartner, for Tech, professional team, we have a reference architecture Resource Center, uh, which has over 200 reference architecture, and which we basically come up with a, a framework to help provide vendor neutral and unbiased actual framework, uh, for different Gartner, subject matter. Experts. So, uh, if you have access to those, uh, please take a look at it. And, uh, in addition to the reference architecture, uh, just
[00:00:45] Especially on the DNA alone, we have over 20 reference architecture. So we have 1 for Lakehouse 1 for data products. 1 for rag 1 for self-service analytics so can go on on, say about 20 plus reference architecture, just for data management. And most recently, we also published, uh, toolkits, uh, for organization who are looking to conduct workshops for data management. Or if you want to do AI Readiness as part of your overall assessment. So just, uh, for those who have access feel free to, um, get hold of those resources that can be beneficial. So I'm just turning the page from 1 of those research to help, uh, provide this presentation,
[00:01:23] as we all know data management, is Central to an organization's data analytics capabilities, uh,
[00:01:30] It allows obviously to bring data from diverse sources, help you to provide, uh, uh, data. Um, in the context of reference, it also help you to provide wide variety of use cases across different Industries, uh, to help prioritize your data management so that you can provide values, uh, to your end user clients. But when it comes to core characteristics for data management, um, there are 4 core areas that I want to highlight uh starting with end to end data management. Um, in dimension provides a very comprehensive approach, uh, to help oversee your entire, uh, data life cycle. Uh, to ensure that you have data consistency data quality. You also want to make sure that, uh, it is holistic so, so, so that it can help you do enable better governance, help you to streamline your operations and also improve.
[00:02:15] Decision making, uh, the next comes the inner operability uh, inner operability is more about interchanging communication so where you have the ability to seamlessly, uh, make integration works and make it more cohesive, uh, across these different tools or different systems, or even sometimes, even in a hybrid deployment where you want to, uh, switch between your on-premise and Cloud. Uh, the third core pillar is I call adaptability
[00:02:41] Which is about providing the ability for you to elastically scale. Uh, help some of the the ability for you to use some modular resources and elastic resources to help you to deliver new capabilities and help you to manage more more workloads and at a more optimal cost, uh, without disrupting your opportunity,
[00:03:00] Ations and finally, the agility is to support a lot of the devops principles, so that you can, uh, make changes to your pipeline, um, deploy cicd so that you can integrate much faster quicker, you can test new features and without uh too much downtime, uh, into your data management platform.
[00:03:21] so in today's, um,
[00:03:23] Presentation, I'm going to be covering 3 areas. I'm going to start with kind of walking through a step-by-step on how you go about thinking about creating a reference activity for data management. And the next we look into some of the core capabilities that are needed to help further extend your data management to support Eid data. And finally, we look into some of the technological trends that help you to drive, uh, the future of data,
[00:03:45] Management.
[00:03:47] Um, starting with the reference architecture, uh, the first and foremost thing, you want to look at is what we call as data faces. Um, the data faces, there are 3 different phases. You want to think about 1 is acquire organize and deliver. Uh, during the acquired phase, the goal is to really collect data from these different systems. Both internal external to ensure that you have completeness and accuracy and relevance for any Downstream processing and Analysis. And next comes, the organized phase, uh, during the organized phase, uh, you your goal is to primarily bring the data transform, it cleans it curated. And, um, also make sure that you apply the governance and metadata management to to again, help.
[00:04:30] Support consistency and quality uh as part of the data management platform. And finally, the delivery phase is more about um Distributing your curated data to the various end users applications machines in the case of Agents. Also enabling more secure uh Timeless access for the data to help support the business decision-making process.
[00:04:56] And the next you want to look at the different components as part of the data management. Um, uh components are basically those boxes starting from data sources all the way to the data access. Um, so the as you can see that the the components consist of multiple, each of these component has different components underneath it.
[00:05:15] To help support the various aspects, including your data Ops your governance metadata management, which are at the bottom to support a complete end-to-end data management.
[00:05:28] And then the third thing, you want to look at is the data flows, uh, how the data kind of flow uh across the different value, chain to help support the end-to-end data management. And then finally looking into how you can logically group some of those uh, components so that it can help you to organize your workloads, organized, your data management and processing more effectively.
[00:05:50] So I'm going to go through each 1 of those phases uh, in much more into detail. So again, what I'm really doing is I'm taking a reference architecture that we created and kind of break.
[00:06:00] Into these different pieces so that we can.
[00:06:02] Kind of work together to help build that architecture. Um, as you said that Acquire faces responsible for systematically collecting data, both from your structured and structured data for a very from a variety of source system.
[00:06:15] So when it comes to structured data, it's all about the traditional data sources. Whether it could be your databases or your application sources such as your Erp or CRM, or HR systems and sometimes it also includes some spreadsheets and other transaction systems. Um, the goal of this is to basically the data is uh, highly organized. So, um, the rear typically comes in a tablet format with defined schemas, which makes it pretty straightforward, which I think, as if you already in the data management space, you're probably doing it for
[00:06:45] For several decades. So, this is something that is well matured and and something that we do it, uh, time and time again. Um, the the newest piece is the unstructured data. Uh, as organizations start looking into Aid data. Now, we are looking into processing more and more unstructured data, which comes from wide variety of sources. Such as emails, social media, feeds documents images, audio files, and sensor data web blocks, which are I call semi-structured, uh, we as a data management practitioner. We've been doing it in the past, but primarily more in the context of Big Data, uh, and and, and not truly in the context of AI Readiness. So that's where you have to do some additional step, uh, to help support some of the data such as you want to make sure that, uh, you
[00:07:30] To bring those documents. You want to be able to chunk them, you want to be able to react them.
[00:07:35] And sometimes you are to do additional data processing such as metadata tagging to help support, uh, a Readiness, uh, from a data injection, uh, methods. As you can see, uh, you there are different types of methods in which you can bring them such as CDC batch, whereas for the uh, unstructured data. You have this OCR processing and different um methods in which you bring the data as part of the data acquisition phase.
[00:08:01] Uh, next we move on to organize phase. Organized phase is more about preparing your uh the data that you acquired uh to make sure that you make it more effective from a storage and access and make sure that it has been utilized across
[00:08:15] Your Enterprise. Um, in this phase, you transform the raw data into more trusted usable assets by applying rigorous data processing techniques. Um uh from restructuring, the data, depending on your analytic, use cases to Cleansing to curation to integration, and to governance, um, during the organized phase you bring both, uh, structure and structure data and, and you can map them into different formats. Um, as you can see here. So there are different types of uh, storage options, that that are available in the modern data management, where you can store them in purpose-built, like a data, uh, structures. Uh, or you could sometimes you store them in, maybe, you know, data lake or in a lake house, uh, it provides you wide variety of options.
[00:09:00] To store those different types of data. Um,
[00:09:03] In fact, uh there is if you look into the reference architecture for lake house, uh you will also see that you can also apply The Medallion layer into it. So that as you break the data, as part of the organized phase, you can bring them into your bronze, silver, gold layer. And within the bronzer layer, you can use, uh, multitude of, uh, data store options, or you can use a, a single store option. So, those are depending on the the technology that you use, you provide those different, uh, variation that are available. Um, so when you think about modern data management,
[00:09:33] The way how I explain people is is it is about multi-store multimodal multi-engine. Um, what I'm multi is the ability for you to store in different storage in different format.
[00:09:45] Uh based on the specific use cases because as you start bringing some unstructured data, you want to start building some vectors to help support, uh, the similarities between to link your structure and structure data. Then you also start building some graph databases on top of it to, uh, to help support your, uh, graph rag or other rag applications. So, uh, so that is from a storage perspective and then the multi model is have the ability for you to store in different formats or different structures. Because typically when you bring your operational data, uh they are highly normalized. Uh as you bring them into these modern data stores which are more columnar uh or and they are more MPP. So you really cannot use the standard I call SAS and you can just put them into a lake house and make assuming it's going to work.
[00:10:30] Part of it is because these databases are not designed to do joints because they always do hash joints. The only index you see in a modern data, warehouses primary index. So you don't have a secondary index or bitmap index. All these different things and there is no concept of query execution plan. Uh, you the vendor's kind of talked about, it's purely storage and compute variation. So for all and also the datas are stored in more columnar blocks on are not in a Roblox. So depending on the type of use cases that you have, it is important that you want to kind of rethink the way. How you want to store the data on, how you want to really um format your data as you bring into the data. And then when it comes to processing, we typically we always use SQL. Now, you have, you have serverless options available now. You also have
[00:11:15] Have, uh, spark. So, there are so many that I call the multi-engine. So that's the concept around this multi-source, multimodel and multi-engine, uh, which are important to help support your area data. And to support semantics, for your data consumer, uh, including llms
[00:11:33] So next on the delivery phase, it's about uh, making sure that the data that you curate and integrated can be safely, delivered to your consumers. Uh, again, it could be an individual, could be a machine, it could be an application or could be a business process. Um, where you can kind of go through different styles in which you can deliver the data.
[00:11:52] Oh, I have to click to so what? Um so uh again some of the delivery channels also include like I said, you have query
[00:12:00] Interfaces. Uh, you can still continue to use API or virtualization Marketplace, so you have wide variety of way in which you can deliver the data and user. Uh, now we'll review, uh, some of the different components and phases that spans across all 3 phases, uh, starting with data Ops. Um, when you think about data, Ops data Ops nothing. But, uh,
[00:12:22] It applies a lot of the devops principles for data management. It help you to facilitate automating. Your an orchestrating a data pipeline, your deployment and management. So it's mainly about um, how you can really uh, move or or migrate your objects across these environment. It also heavily emphasis on data observability for Real Time monitoring. Um it also include
[00:12:45] Questioning of your code, schemas and data sets. And also it includes some cicd to help ensure traceability compliance and operational efficiency throughout your data cycle.
[00:12:59] And the next is the governance. Again, governance is also something that spans across all 3 phases. Uh, governance is obviously it's critical and essential to help. Uh,
[00:13:08] To make sure that you can securely deliver your data to your Enterprise. Uh, it consists of 4, major pillars. First, 1 is about identity which defines the access and accountability of your data. Next comes the Privacy which protects sensitive data as well as ensure Regulatory Compliance, and then you also have the data quality, mainly to provide accuracy and to help meet standards.
[00:13:30] And then the ownership is about assigning responsibility on all sides. Uh together these pillars will help you to maximize your uh, data value and also help you to uh deliver data to the end users.
[00:13:44] Metadata management. Um, again, this is becoming even more critical, uh, as part of the modern data management. Um, we talked about data Fabric, in my previous presentation, we also talked about agents. Um, so where metadata kind of becomes the start defending, the Enterprise Value and usability. And it uses primarily the data catalog, which is mainly used for the users, both business and from the technical context to help discover data to help identify and help, uh, for
[00:14:15] Faster and more collaboration on the lineage, it is more about providing end-to-end visibility into your data Journey supporting, for example, data quality or Audits and also uh to some extent uh, support some Regulatory Compliance and then the active metadata, which is more real-time metadata, help you to enable Automation observability and provide some intelligence, uh, automation uh, for governance and efficiency.
[00:14:42] So now when you go back and put all those different pieces together, it can kind of help you to provide a framework for reference architecture. But the key thing is when you build these reference architectures it is also important that you need to then layer that with your specific use cases. Because sometimes when you start the journey you may
[00:15:00] May not need all the different components as part of this architecture. So for example, you may maybe starting with just a batch process, you don't need CDC. So, um, the way how you want to really think about this is that, um, that's why we have this toolkit that's available as part of the to help you to, um, how you can really start defending, your reference architecture to help lay the foundation to help support your data driven initiatives.
[00:15:26] So, we'll go into the next segment where you want to talk about, what are some of the capabilities that are that you should be thinking about to help support the AI ready data management.
[00:15:37] So what is AI, ready data? I think when you think about, like, when you ask that question, even interestingly.
[00:15:45] Asked a question to multiple people and you're going to get different types of answer. It's, it's all about. Hey, is it about making the data ready for AI, or? But I think in a simple term, I think it's all about are data is nothing but it consists of data that is fully representative of your sources asset related to your specific, AI use case. That's super important because, uh, the are ready data is going to be different for different AI use cases, uh, because, um, again, it's it's based on the needs based on the context. So it is important that you want to make sure that uh, you are you to support area data. You need to have these 3, major pillars as part of your defining, uh, starting with aligned uh, data alignment, uh, aligning data with use cases, it involves make sure that you
[00:16:30] Publishing your structure your semantics. Uh also you want to make sure that you have a proper annotations and labeling. Uh so that your data is fully representative and it is most importantly it is also make sure that it supports the a model accuracy transparency and your operational objectives. Um on the qualifying uh phase it's more about ensuring that the data that you deliver is fully validated. It's verified and it also includes some of the parameters such as
[00:16:59] slaughs uh versioning for auditability and also uh having some regression analysis Etc. And then finally on the governance side it is more about making sure the data that you are creating as part of the a walls, AI regulations and standards. Uh,
[00:17:15] Make sure it address some of the ethics and also some control influence and deviation. So again, we have a comprehensive list, I just want to provide kind of a sample list on what are the key characteristics that are required to help support your AI ready data?
[00:17:32] So, as you look through these different components of sub components, uh, mapping that to the reference architecture that we previously saw. Uh, you see that there are some AI specific components, uh, that are being added. Um, so just for example, uh, as part of the, a Readiness you want to from a technology perspective, you want to make sure that you have, uh, Vector databases, or should I have to have maybe a knowledge graph, or a knowledge data, uh, graph databases, or should I think of
[00:18:00] Mode NL Q's or even prompt, engineering or mCP. So there are various components that you should be thinking about as part of you creating your uh are ready data, which are extension to the core data management architecture that you previously defined.
[00:18:17] And again, this is not a comprehensive list, which is just a representative of what all the additional things that you should be thinking about uh AI specific components for for making your are ready data.
[00:18:28] uh, as you review, these components for data management, uh, you will notice, there are certain components that
[00:18:34] that brings significant impact to support AI Readiness, for example, on the first half of things, you see, a significant concentration on the different categories where, uh,
[00:18:45] Edit data becomes super important uh not so much on the other side on where you are, looking from a data, sourcing standpoint. Uh, for example, on the data processing, um, and material management is widely supported across all 4 categories. Whereas governance,
[00:19:01] Uh, it's particularly for production certification.
[00:19:08] So here is a simple illustration of how you can measure your are data. Uh, so to not to kind of read through the entire diagram. So, what you want to really understand is as you can see, your data qualification data, usage context, expands as you kind of move along the different, I call the different AI ready data models, starting from your PC,
[00:19:30] All the way to production and through the process. As you can see, the representativeness of your data is also increasing, which will then help you to support Eid.
[00:19:38] Uh, also, when you think about data Readiness it can remain fixed, it doesn't have to be changing. Um, and from when you move from left to right, each mode, uh, utilizes metadata completely different. So that there is no specific demand for you to move from 1 to the other.
[00:19:53] Um, on and also on, when you look into the proof of concept, you are going to be heavily dependent on skills and dependent on tools to help support, uh, with more experts contributing to the earlier stage of your POC. Whereas, as you start production production, I think the AI ready data because of your augmented uh,
[00:20:15] Active metadata. Mm enablement. You'll be focusing more on tools and programs to enable automation. So, so that's a critical piece because when organization think about, okay, hey, how do I, what type of resourcing that I have to think about when you, uh, do are ready and how do I really measure are ready? So, this is a simple illustration of how you can think about mapping. Uh, your are Readiness to your implementation.
[00:20:39] And then the last segment, we look into some of the trends and what kind of drives the future of data management.
[00:20:47] So uh, here are some of the I call the guiding principles to help you to Future proof your data architecture. First, 1 is the multimodal. Uh uh as you can see, data management has become multimodal uh, which support from data fabric data mesh and
[00:21:00] Data Lakehouse pattern which now supports, um, all forms of data or different forms of data. Um, so that it can start helping you to your Enterprise to be more flexible to support your Enterprise data management. Uh, next comes the AI ready which requires you to have the alignment qualification and governance of all the data to meet your a specific, uh, requirements. Um, the third 1 is data product. I think with the enablement of AI ready, uh, you have the ability to enable more scalable self-service, uh, data products, uh, with the support of Agents. So, that is something that you want to make sure that the, the, the data management Foundation that you create can help you to accelerate some of the data product delivery. And finally, as you think about designing, you want to make sure your data management is
[00:21:45] Flexible and scalable and maintainable, uh, across the journey. Um, so that it can promote ease of use and ease of integration. And also the ability for you to change. As you can see the technology is changing. So rapidly, you want to make sure that you're aligned to with the evolving um technology needs and also the business needs
[00:22:06] So, um, I want to spend a few minutes to kind of describe to this slide. So if you look at the data management Market, which is on the top,
[00:22:14] For those who are focus on data management, these are some of the different kind of the blocks. Some of them are Point Solutions, some of, the more Standalone tools, uh, delivered by different vendors, uh, back in 2021, right. After coid, we used to have 1600 vendors, uh, that got
[00:22:30] Used to cover in that space. Now, we are in the neighborhood of 600 650. So why it's important is we are seeing a significant consolidation in the data management space, where now more and more vendors are consolidating, uh, kind of related to the other half where we are. Seeing this converged data management platform that you start to evolve. Um, so as you can see, if the vendor whose primary doing data catalog now, they are doing more than just data catalog. They probably now provided a quality solution, so they also provide data management. So we are seeing either vendors or
[00:23:04] consolidating, or
[00:23:06] The vendors are now ramping up and adding more capabilities. As part of uh providing a broader uh data platform. Um in fact, when we did a survey,
[00:23:15] Uh, last year with cdos 56% of the cdos. Now, actually re-evaluating their current deployment. Why it's important is because I'm, I think many of you today. If I ask you the question, you probably have a modern data stack that consists of
[00:23:30] 20 vendors, uh, to help put it into a data management. You may have a vendor for cloud and another vendor for your data warehouse and other vendor for your ETL integration other vendor for your bi while that provides the best of the breed capabilities. It also brings lot of challenges when it comes to building integration. And and that's where we talk about this whole data fabric architecture where it provides some level of consolidation. But then we are now going into more into the converge platform. Uh, and and maybe
[00:24:00] Be the future aspiration is to have more ecosystem type where we can be more interoperable. But in today,
[00:24:06] Uh, we are seeing more and more customers are trying to consolidate the data platform.
[00:24:10] Primarily to 1 vendor, I know, 1 of the bigger concern was vendor locking, but the reality is vendor locking is something that we always think about in the beginning. But once you get implemented, we really because the market is so competitive, that not 1 wonder is not going to charge more than the other, so our
[00:24:27] Advice to our client is to make sure that you uh, like just like all the leaders you want to start thinking about how you can start building those converged data platform. Uh, as part of a deployment, uh, either leveraging your existing tools to consolidate it or uh, use some of the addition.
[00:24:45] Capability that are offered through your vendors.
[00:24:48] Um, here is a brief summary of the different vendors and for the different components, uh, 1 of the thing that I want to highlight is that we are seeing organizations, or gravitating more towards what we call a single Winger vendor ecosystem. As I said, um, primarily decided, okay, how will I decide which vendor to pick? Um, the easiest way to think about is what is your primary center of gravity? So, if your gravitating, your data to a particular vendor, you want to make sure that okay, can I use that vendor to leverage all that additional capabilities? Do they offer data integration? Uh, do they offer other tooling that would be probably the maybe the most pragmatic approach, uh, but then,
[00:25:27] we also seeing that with the
[00:25:30] uh,
[00:25:31] with the Open Table formats and with all the open catalog that are coming now. So there's a lot of interoperability that's happening because of the fact that now 1 vendor can read other vendor's data uh, with and even though each vendor have their own metadata. So that's the next Evolution that we are seeing but we are only seeing in a limited space purely. Only on data side, we don't see it much on the tooling side or or on the details. I cannot use an Informatica mapping and run it, uh, somewhere else, right? It has to use the Informatica proprietary material, uh, those kind of things, so those still exist but uh, that is the evolution that we are seeing from a future data management standpoint. So so as as I said before you uh by processing single vendor ecosystem, you may be able to achieve greater efficiency in agility.
[00:26:15] Um, so that you can uh, able to meet the demands and most importantly, that way you also converge your metadata, to 1 ecosystem, as suppose to having multi metadata that's proliferated across your bi tools, your integration tools and your data management tools.
[00:26:32] Um, finally, here are some of the recommendations. So uh my first recommendation to adopt a modular architecture uh that can support uh, both your on-premise Cloud hybrid and Edge deployment. Um, again with the with the internet that you want to avoid some sort of vendor lock in to help enable seamless integration and scalable AI solution and um, okay, I said, vendor lock in now. Avoid vendor lock in the way you want to think about is by leveraging more Open. Standards open.
[00:27:00] Format, that's 1 way it will help you to avoid it. But uh, as I said, a lot of the vendors are now moving into that in that direction but
[00:27:08] When you think about which, maybe, it may take several years because and it's also not available in all areas. So as you start thinking about your data platform, the first thing is you want to make sure that you can converge into this converge data platform first and then work on, um, the inner operability of the ecosystem. And then next thing is make sure that you use diverse uh data types and uh Lakehouse architecture start using open format and again use different types of storage to support specific use cases, as I said because the modern data management now supports previously, we used to have just 1 day
[00:27:45] Database used for transactional. Analytical everything is done in 1 databases and 15 types of, uh, database and data storage options that are available. Um, for for a specific reason, because if you want to do time series, you want to use a Time series database. Or if you want to use graph, you want to use the graph database. So I know that sometimes you have to make copies of the data as long as the copies are originated from a single source of Truth. Um, it's still going to be valuable from a cost, uh, and efficiency standpoint because the biggest cost is purely on compute. Not much on storage. Um, finally, you want to make sure that you embed a good governance and mature metadata management as part of your AI strategy. So that
[00:28:30] You can emphasize your data quality lineage, and also make sure that you, uh, add her to all your regulatory components. And then finally, make sure that your data management is a strategic enabler for
[00:28:42] For your modern uh, data platform so that you can eliminate those silos. Uh so you can elaborate uh you can improve collaboration through metadata management.
[00:28:53] And here are some of the action plans again at a very high level. So as you leave this conference, when you go back to work on Monday, um, you want to start thinking about um, these things and then you can start thinking about what I want to do for the next 3 months. And next 12 months,
[00:29:08] and here are some of the recommended research for your reading and here is a survey
[00:29:14] Thank you.
