[00:00:03] All right, we get the bright lights up here.
[00:00:07] Welcome everybody. My name is Daniel Kota and I'm here to be the moderator, slash boxing referee today. Um, our hope is that we could go through this panel and have a very Lively discussion.
[00:00:22] Um, you know, about a very, uh, you know, contentious sometimes topic about data management and all introduced these 3, wonderful people here in a few minutes, I wanted to get through a few things but what I need your help with is Gartner analysts seem to talk a lot. And so, what we need to do is make sure that everybody's within like a 2 minute. Uh,
[00:00:45] Range, whenever I ask a question, so please help me with that. All right, well, great. Um, so as you probably know, DNA leaders are really challenged with this concept of a data management and there's a lot of different thoughts on it. There's a lot of different discussion going on. There's just many different ways to handle to manage to build technical architectures for data management. So some of those are cloud service providers as you all are aware. So some of them are independent software, vendors isvs and of course, SAS applications. And those are, you know, kind of the broad majority of what's Happening. Where everything's going the different direction and so forth. Now 1,
[00:01:30] Of the key questions. Of course, that our users ask Gartner is well, what does that mean for me, as we start to see different capabilities? Start to see different technical underlying architecture patterns come up. The biggest thing is, well, it seems like everything's converging whether its data analytics, AI, of course, everything appears to be converging into 1 type of ecosystem so to speak. And so that's starting to become more challenging. So in today what we'd like to do is we'd like to help you evaluate what that looks like go through some scenarios and hopefully we won't have any boxing match up here but we
[00:02:15] You want to get some conversation going across these individuals, these analysts here.
[00:02:20] And so of course, typical Gartner fashion. We have to throw a statistic up there. So as you can see, 50% of cdao. Consider optimizing their DNA technology, landscape, technical debt. In other words, and that's their primary responsibility. So they need to really understand. What does that mean? What does that look like? How do I evaluate? I'm sure I have plenty of vendors in here and so the vendors are trying to get that market share, of course. Um, and they're trying to talk to these cdos of what makes sense for them, and helping them navigate all of these challenges, what it looks like and everything especially
[00:03:00] Since they're responsible for that technical debt.
[00:03:04] And so analysts. We as analysts we we we we predict that there's these Point solutions that are, are kind of converging together and they're converging from all different uh, practices everybody has an agent right now. And so, what does that mean from a data management architecture? If I'm looking at a cloud service provider, or an RSV isv or a SAS application?
[00:03:30] And what we like to do at gardeners, we like to kind of showcase what that what that typically means so you could see the data data management Market categories here. And as you could see across the top, there's all different kinds of data capability.
[00:03:45] Abilities that have been around for decades, right? You have data integration quality metadata and so forth. All of these capabilities are starting to converge together. For example, I work for a large, uh, Financial Service Company we probably had about 4 or 5 products for every 1 of these capabilities different products. So we're starting seat to see the convergence, not just from that capability perspective. But also the board meaning. Now a lot of these different data management platforms are bringing them all together reducing or minimizing that technical debt and hopefully getting some form of Consolidated environment that will help with these Point Solutions.
[00:04:30] And so what we'd like to talk about today and hopefully resolve for a lot of you or answer questions is around this platform and these different approaches to what this looks like. And we're going to talk about the different segments. How do you evaluate these choices and how should you, as end users or even vendors? Look at the market and what that looks like from a longer term Strategic Management data management platform.
[00:05:01] And so, what I'd like to do is now introduce the wonderful analyst here and I'd like to give them an opportunity to showcase what it means from each of these different categories. And just
[00:05:15] Kind of given give us an introduction of what their particular category looks like.
[00:05:21] That is, I'm start with you, right? Uh yeah, thank you Daniel. Uh, good morning everyone and good morning to my fellow panelists. Uh, my name is Ali Shan working with the data management resource team at Gartner. And today, I've been asked to represent the cloud service provider, ecosystem category. So as you can imagine, there are the 3 large Cloud infrastructure players, Microsoft would obviously the fabric data analytics ecosystem. You have obviously the AWS with the sagemaker uh uh, ecosystem and then the same thing with Google with data Plex and bigquery along with uh, you know, Alibaba and also, you know, uh, I
[00:06:00] M and uh, Oracle. So that's the category that I will be speaking about and defending from these people today and I'll basically preparing, you know, convince you guys to go end to end with that category.
[00:06:12] All right. Um, great to see you all pretty. Uh pretty full room. So thank you for coming. So my name is uh Roxy. I'm uh, you know, colleagues with these 2 guys are feeling sorry already. Um, so today I have the, the, the tough role of, uh, representing the application providers. Those that have been running your business applications, your business processes, the sap sales for service. Now, workday of the world, and of course, there are overlaps. So
[00:06:45] Oracle and IBM, you know, can play for example in multiple categories. So, you know, they would be also represented in this uh uh application provider um in this application provider landscape.
[00:06:57] And yes. And so, yeah, we'll discuss the pros and cons, but uh, certainly all of these providers have had a lot of data and then are expanding further in data management and operating those data management platforms. So, uh, uh, definitely, uh, going to be defending that side of the picture. What about you? Thank you roxan. Hey, I'm Robert. I believe I have the best job among all 4 for the next 30 minutes. Representing the independent software vendors, the likes of the Snowflake and the data.
[00:07:30] The likes of ab and issue and Informatica pallante and precisely intersystems and who not, right? So that is the category. I'm trying to defend. Why? Because
[00:07:41] There is, there isn't any of 1 of you who says, we are a single Cloud dependent, uh, organization. Neither you have only 1, app provider, you have both sap. You have both Oracle IBM and many many things and it makes a lot more sense to be independent when it comes to talking about the converge data management platform offering. We'll get into that later.
[00:08:05] Back to you, Daniel. All right, so 1 thing that we didn't see here out of all these 3 is there is actually a fourth option and that fourth
[00:08:15] Option is right there in the middle. And that's where all of these capabilities. As all 3 of these mentioned, they they claim that each 1 of theirs is the best, but there is that fourth option and that's bringing them all together and being able to do all of it in in some form or some fashion of an ecosystem. So that's also something to consider and Please be aware, you know, we do get in trouble with with our vendors, sometimes we're not listing every vendor out there. So if there's vendors in the audience that aren't listed, you could come talk to us, but we just try to show sample vendors, so please just be aware of that.
[00:08:51] All right. Well good, well that sounds all, you know, nice and good and fluffy and all that, but I want to know between each of you. What are the pro
[00:09:00] What, why would we just go with 1?
[00:09:03] Category, 1 option in this. This this seems not to make sense for me.
[00:09:08] Right. Okay, I'll, uh, I'll make the case for you all going end to end for your data management requirements with the cloud service. Provider first, right? So, look, I mean, uh, we've been surveying a lot for, uh, data management, folks. And, uh, we've been consistently told that over the years on an average, you guys have about 12
[00:09:29] Technology data management vendors. That you have at the very minimum to give you the data management requirements that you need for analytics Ai and operational use cases. Now, that's a lot of Point solutions that you have to now rationalize and integrate and that
[00:09:45] What is the case, right? Most of you are looking to evaluate a cloud data Lakehouse as your long-term data management architecture. Because it gives you the flexibility with Open Table. Formats open file formats. And so, why wouldn't you want to extend the cloud provider's ecosystem with? Now they're very improved capabilities on data, integration on data, quality on metadata. Those are either acquired or they have really invested in improving those capabilities. They're there, they're well, integrated, you don't have to go with the systems integrated to, you know, get, uh, several vendors to be incorporated and integrated. So why wouldn't you want to do that now?
[00:10:24] We might get an argument that. Hey, some of the capabilities are good, not good enough. Well, fine, but some
[00:10:30] So some use cases, you know, good enough is just good enough. The cost of having those capabilities integrated is far more important. And the time to Market with a well, integrated ecosystem, for some use cases is far more important than differentiation than customization and then maybe maturity of those individual components, right? So that's your use case where you want to go single Cloud end to end
[00:10:58] You feel like time to Market is more important than customization than you know a specificity and you feel like you can use the Incorporated capability of. Let's say Azure data Factory as an integration tool within Microsoft, Fabric or purview as a metadata technology Within
[00:11:15] Microsoft Fabric or their data warehouse, which is synapse, analytics, and powerbi. That's your fastest path to adoption and implementation. I think that makes the case for the category. Allow me to jump in here, right? Um, wow. I heard a few things but good enough. Okay. Uh, fast start.
[00:11:37] You know, um, maturity wise, think about it later, I disagree. You guys. Need solid. Deep cable is technical capabilities. You even mentioned a couple of metadata names. Um, for example, if we look at Gartner's, magic quadrant for metadata Management Solutions,
[00:11:54] Where are the hyperscalers?
[00:11:57] Where are they? They're missing each and every
[00:12:00] 1 of them. So independent software vendors. They make the best use case when it comes to not just metadata. But when you look for deep capabilities,
[00:12:09] Take an example for example, palantir.
[00:12:12] You are developing an organizational capability of that competency, you're investing in your engineering skills to develop deep capabilities of that platform knowledge and so on. So that is my case, why an independent software vendor category is better for data management than a hyperscaler. All right, I decided
[00:12:35] All right. Well,
[00:12:36] you know, look.
[00:12:37] These guys, both of them, I love them. They're really sweet. But who knows? Better your data than your application. Vendor? Who knows.
[00:12:45] Better your business applications, your business processes, who knows that best then your application vendors plus, they've all invested in adding more capabilities to their landscape Salesforce acquiring Informatica and mulesoft Tableau sap. Announcing recently Acquisitions of Prior labs and DMO and not so long ago, a relative for master data management, they're all expanding.
[00:13:16] Their offerings to cover a much broader data management. And you know why? Because data management is core to everything that is being required and will be core to your AI and agentic, AI capabilities.
[00:13:30] If you want to have your AI agents, run on your business, application in a meaningful way and have the semantics of those applications represented properly, who knows. Better the semantics the context than the application vendors themselves.
[00:13:48] so, you know,
[00:13:50] the point being
[00:13:52] Moving forward, the application vendors are going to continue to know most about all of the data, its metadata its context. Whereas these guys are trying to infer it,
[00:14:06] Excellent points. Thank you all so much. Well, as you know, that that sounds like a lot of marketing to me. I don't know but it just sounds from
[00:14:15] From all of them, right? So, what I really want to hear, let's be transparent and honest what are the challenges for each 1? Like each category. There's got to be challenges. Everything's not gummy bears and rainbows, but yeah.
[00:14:29] Yeah so look I mean uh as much as I'm representing a category, it's very important for you. So if you're a look, when do you go with a single Cloud ecosystem and extend that to cover your data analytics and AI ecosystem?
[00:14:42] Be honest. You usually when you are in X shop, a Microsoft Shop, Rite
[00:14:49] So or or or Amazon, only, right? So the point is, if your Enterprise applications usually generate, a lot of your data that are a specific cloud provider. Chances are you
[00:15:00] Extend to utilize the data management and eventually their AI Services uh that said you know uh most of you all would not ever have all of your data operational data being ingested and integrated into their Lakehouse into their platform, they will always be data that is external, you know they'll always be data that is on Prem you would not want to move that into uh basically 1 infrastructure 1 1 cloud provider ecosystem. And so if you are 1 of those, you may want to always remember that. Uh, there is always going to be the need for Federated consolidation with that uh, you know, system that was left behind on premises is always going to be that need for that integrated.
[00:15:45] View of that data that is not within that cloud ecosystem. I would make a lot of sense for you to then not go, you know, fully, you know, throw the kitchen sink at this end-to-end Cloud ecosystem, being your only option, right? That would be a mistake in my opinion. The other thing you may want to watch out and I think Robert started to talk about that is look
[00:16:06] I don't think all data management capabilities are created equal in any of these cloud.
[00:16:12] Data management. Ecosystems just
[00:16:14] They're not right. Uh, you know uh, specially
[00:16:19] Integration metadata quality and governance as of right now as data management.
[00:16:26] Capabilities seem to be lagging behind.
[00:16:31] Most of the independent software vendors capabilities in those areas. Uh, particularly like to call out the fact that look if you're looking at an integration tool that is embedded in the cloud provider like Azure data Factory with fabric and you know, AWS glue and Kinesis and uh managed services for Kafka with AWS uh you know on Lake flow with data bricks, Etc. I mean even if it's an ISP I'd like to call that point out. If you're looking at that capability, there's a good chance that they may give you 1 type of integration like an injection or an elt. But if you really want it, replication, virtualization streaming and good mature capabilities. You may still have to continue to look at independent software vendors to cover those gaps. Same thing with metadata they probably will integrate
[00:17:15] Only the metadata, they'll probably scan only the tables within their ecosystem, right. That makes sense for them. That won't probably make sense for you because you may want to access metadata from outside their ecosystem. So uh, independent software vendor, you know, metadata space may continue to make sense for you and we can make the same arguments about governance. So, yeah, those are some of the reasons why you wouldn't want to go all out. Yeah. Relating to the application. Um, uh, providers. Well, the the big deal is that. Yeah. They manage your, your key business processes. They run, you know, and manage a lot of your very, um, you know, uh sensitive data. Well the the data that really has has value to you. That's true but
[00:18:00] It is also very rare that you run a single application provider, you often have multiple applications in your landscape and plus you likely have some of the other tools like Danielle was saying earlier, you know, um, you know, most of our clients they run multiple Tools in every single 1 of those categories.
[00:18:21] And so the fact of having, you know, the application providers, expanding in 1 category, doesn't necessarily mean that this is the most suitable path for you guys, unless, you know, they have such a footprint in your landscape. That it makes sense.
[00:18:39] to actually use the capabilities within the remit of
[00:18:45] Of the application and the neighboring use cases but it is unlikely that you're ever going to have, you know, that as your single, you know, uh, data management platform across the board for all of your cases, including those applicate, the applications data and other, you know, other uh use cases as well. So I think that's probably not going to be in your realistic future unless you are end-to-end running that that application provider for all of your business processes and all your business applications which is
[00:19:20] Quite rare. So I think that there is right now, a land grab and the land, grab is about data management and the reason there is land grab
[00:19:30] For that is because of AI. And that is actually creating a lot of tension. And a lot of tension is coming to the metadata management layer. The semantics, the orchestration, all of those parts that are going to allow for agent to capabilities. So I think that you know, the next Frontier is not going to be who owns your data, but who owns your metadata?
[00:19:55] So um, you know, if you think about that as in the context of your landscape that might also help you balance out.
[00:20:03] In a different way, the 3 options roxan and thank you for speaking in favor of my Camp. The question is slightly different, you know, when would you not adopt
[00:20:15] so,
[00:20:16] You do not want to recreate the problem of the past, going with a best of breed and selecting multiple isvs and over complicating, your ecosystems and architectures, we are talking about convergence simplification. So if your isv of choice is being used, only natively, let's say for integration or only for data quality or only for master data management. Then probably you have the ability to expand if the vendor provides those capabilities. But there are organizational challenges behind the scene, you have an ahead for data. Integration ahead for your data, warehouses ahead for data governance,
[00:21:00] And many such things and you are less likely to bring those teams together, representing have the market and these platform capabilities come together. So, these organizational challenges are a big setback. When adopting to a data management platform from isvs,
[00:21:19] Secondly, you also are less likely to upskill all your teams, you know, rather than being a specialist for data governance and policy and data quality, implementations, you're less likely to, uh, repurpose those kind of skills into, let's get them into Data. Engineering Context, Engineering or platform engineering. So those
[00:21:45] Skills challenges are also yielding to less appealing within the isv case. Uh and lastly isvs are also candidates for Acquisitions, right? Uh roxan mentioned, a lot of examples when she was talking about app providers and and what if you invested on an isv and they got acquired either by a hyperscaler or an app provider who are not your strategic Partners, those are some of the cases when the isv segment is not very ideal for you. Uh, I do add 1 to Robert's misery because
[00:22:21] It's fun. You know, another reason why multiple independent software vendors, stitch together plumbed together as
[00:22:30] As much as you want to, obviously believe that you have an army of data Engineers who can do that or eventually want to get a system integrated to system together, which is not going to happen if you keep on adding these isps to bridge the gaps in your portfolio and create your overall AI model application. Let me tell you 1 Thing. How many of these actually share metadata with each other none. Right. Is there an open metadata standard that all of the follow that they can imagine? It's emerging well and open metadata standard has been emerging for the last 10 years. More than that it's it's more than that. Yeah so so no you know as much as we we would like to believe that a great integration tool works with a great metadata tool. I don't
[00:23:12] well, and in additionally, if you think about it,
[00:23:15] Every vendor pretty much has an agent, right? So how do these agents also talk to each other across all these different categories? That's another challenge. And there's mcps all of those great things. Sure, ah to, ah, but that's another level of complexity that's added to this converged data management platform. So something else to consider as well.
[00:23:35] All right, great. Uh, let's see. I think you all did okay with the timing. Let me, uh, what do y'all think? Should we go to the last 1? You want to do the vendor? All right, you should give the vendor. All right. So what we wanted to do also with this with this last question, just real quickly is just kind of give you a a an idea of some of the sample vendors for each of the categories. So let's let's go through that. Yeah, that's the 1 that often gets us into trouble. So,
[00:24:00] Right on the bat. I like to say look the only reason I'm talking about a particular vendor in a category is just because we get more inquiries on it, right? So it's not because we prefer them so you can probably tell, right? Uh, so yeah, we get a significant amount of inquiries on Microsoft fabric, right? Like significant. Okay. So so it's a it's only important that I Do cover that uh, you know, as a as, as a category that I'm representing today. So if you're a Microsoft uh customer typically with their Enterprise applications ssis, SSRS SQL Server, so big probability that you're being sort of, uh, navigated into their Fabric and see the whole idea is it's again, uh, integration of various Microsoft Services Under 1 license model, typically f64 F32, and so on.
[00:24:45] So so the point is you'll have to first ingest the data into their 1 Lake which is again an object storage Paradigm. It provides you with an Open Table format which is called Delta lake. So in theory, you would be able to ingest multi-structured content and have nicely formatted metadata for you.
[00:25:02] Then they're asked to add other services on top. Like, you know, 1 Direction could be to then think about Synapse as a data warehouse and then add powerbi. So that could be your analytics sort of part of that fabric. Otherwise you could look at Azure engineering, which is their sort of answer to data breaks, right for for Python and and Spark based engineering. You can look at Azure open AI, uh, they have the, uh, you know, the metadata governance and, uh, you know,
[00:25:30] Cataloging feature provided as part of Microsoft for purview, which is often the 1 that is, uh, you know, looked at through independent software vendors to augment that. And so yeah, that's how it all sort of comes together from a, uh, you know, Microsoft Fabrics, uh, you know, perspective, if you're an Amazon Customer, similar thing with sagemaker, right? Uh, you, you have to think about their capabilities, but sagemaker is their sort of platform for data and Ai. And so it starts with, you know, glue as their integration tool and also their metadata Tool. Uh, from an integration perspective. Also, if you want streaming, they have Kinesis and managed services for Kafka. You can go into and develop your Enterprise applications for AI with. Uh if it's generative AI, they have Bedrock. So you can create Genai applications
[00:26:15] Or you have the sagemaker AI for model development, what? They don't have right now. They're integrating is their analytics capability which is quicksight and they're also trying to really integrate and improve on their uh capabilities on other areas and then obviously the governance capability on top, right? So that's their sort of answer to the end-to-end ecosystem. So the 1 of the 2 vendors
[00:26:36] You want to go? Um yes. So I'll pick uh, you know, 1 of the vendors among the application providers here that is very present in Europe. So, you know, uh, just for the sake of the exercise, you know, let's look at sap. Um, you know, they've had historically a very large footprint and data management with uh you know the the various versions and iteration of their data.
[00:27:00] The warehousing Solutions and their Hannah adoption um, with um, you know, the the various situation of Hana data warehousing, they have had historically. Also all of the data services data, integration data, quality Master data management, uh, metadata management. So, they're present in most of those magic quadrants across the board. And as I said, they have acquired a number of vendors, uh, recently to expand into AI into, um, uh, you know, lake houses with, uh, DMO and um, also uh, relio for master data management. But that can also play in terms of uh, supporting some of the context requirements for agent to use cases.
[00:27:45] Is so there are certainly, you know, expanding from, from that perspective across the board. Um, and uh, yeah, and uh, to to finish of course, you know, everyone knows that, uh, ACP is not the most open when it comes to access to its data. There never made it really easy. Um, and so that's always something to to watch for. Um, uh, yeah. And so yeah. Well we're running out of time. So I handed
[00:28:13] I guess we uh data breaks snowflake pallante here or the top 3 that usually comes up in our inquiries, popularity device. And I'm going to talk a little bit about data bricks and if I we're to borrow a leaf from roxand book, I would say, 1 of the most open.
[00:28:30] System providers is data bricks very Innovative creators of spark to, uh, Delta Lake and many things. Um, now, uh, data bricks is not just your Lakehouse for persistence layer. It is not limited to Open Table formats where you can ingest data. There have been acquiring many vendors and adding capabilities. Uh uh, over the years for example, to ingest data, they got a company called Iran uh to govern the data within your platform. They got a company called Akira over the years, they have been uh, stabilizing all of these capabilities, even with their uh, neon acquisition for postgres capabilities, uh, getting into operational, database capabilities. So over the years,
[00:29:15] They have not just limited themselves to uh an object store or just an engine providing spark based capabilities over the object store, but from integration, uh, of course not complete in integration where, uh, to bring in data to transform data, uh, a little bit on data quality. Their Unity catalog is also very self-sufficient as a data inventory, business glossary lineage only for data bricks, uh, ecosystem, if your data sits outside, then probably it is not a decade. Um, and uh, uh, they have data bricks, SQL, comparable to a data warehouse offering, uh, such as a snowflake, and so on. So, uh, data bricks is building all of that. Even to the point of creating agents,
[00:30:00] And the ability to build natively uh, agents and so on, so uh, that's that's the vendor. Uh, that's most popular in the ISB category. Um, so back to you Daniel. All right. 1 minute each. I need to know just the key takeaways. So go, all right. Okay. 1 sentence. You want to know that.
[00:30:19] Yes. So
[00:30:22] You're looking at?
[00:30:24] As you enter into an ecosystem, if you usually have a lot of the data from the Enterprise applications and you want to migrate that to a cloud data lake house, you want end to end integrated capabilities as services that share metadata and you want less integration debt in your account.
[00:30:40] For the application provider. You want to use their technology?
[00:30:45] Related to the data in their application, using all of the stack and leveraging that in particular for AI and increasingly moving forward for agentic AI, they will likely be part of the overall landscape and not be the Sole Provider, most likely in the coming future and you choose an isv, when you have multiple clouds, multiple apps, that's the best place where you can grow up your data management capabilities.
[00:31:12] And this, this is where I come in right here, data ecosystem. It's all of them put together. Thank you.