[00:00:04] Good afternoon, everyone.
[00:00:07] So I want to start off with a couple of survey data. Uh, first is, uh, investment a ready data. As emerged as 1 of the top investment, uh, Trend in data management. However, in order to achieve AI ready it is, as you know, it's not a standalone task, it encompasses wide, variety of things from data quality to data governance, integration active metadata management automation data Fabric and data mesh deployment. So the key Point here is everything below the part of number 1 is becomes a misplaced priority so even though the core objective is to get AI ready, all the underpinning things are still required to
[00:00:45] Make it successful.
[00:00:48] And I also want to then focus on what are some of the top barrier with AI initiative and even though data quality and data availability as listed as the top priority. But for organization who are starting new with AI initiative, uh, they are having challenges with deploying and operationalizing, their AI project. And most importantly, they're also having challenges with integrating AI with other applications.
[00:01:12] When you put these 2 challenges together, uh, it creates a tremendous opportunity for agentic AI which can be the Strategic enabler. Uh, not only support your AI ready, data initiative. It can also then help you to automate your evolving, uh, data management.
[00:01:29] Uh, landscape.
[00:01:36] There is a broader consensus among DNA leaders. That automation is the key enabler for AI agents. As you can see more than 88% of the leaders believe that, AI agents can play a critical role in in automating. A lot of their tasks. And the other thing I want to really highlight was, we see a significant spike in our inquiries in the last 12 months. As you can see, there's a 750% increase in the AI agentic, uh, inquiries. And also, we are also seeing that more than 54% of the organizations is either exploring or already started deploying AI agents, uh, in their organization. Uh, finally according to our predictions, uh, agent will be invoked
[00:02:15] In almost every AI interaction and every application that are going to be built from from from now on, uh, they're going to have, uh, agents integrated or integrated so that the teams can shift their focus on other priorities. That's what we are seeing from a trend standpoint.
[00:02:32] So in today's presentation, we are going to be covering these 5 Core issues. Uh, I'm going to lightly touch upon what is AI agent for data management. And we already defined a term called agentic data management, which for those who attended the top 10 is 1 of the trend in in data management. And then we also looking into what are some of the challenges uh, that we are seeing with in data management function? With the use of Agents, we look into some of the disruptions and some vendors and finally how
[00:03:00] you as an organization can prepare and deploy your agent AI as part of your data management platform,
[00:03:07] So let's start off with, uh, what is agentic AI for data management or agentic data management and why does it matter?
[00:03:14] So when you think about, even though we have a definition here, a simplistic way to think about this, a agent for data management is nothing. But the extension of agentic automation to your traditional data management, tools and services, that can be deployed using AI agents.
[00:03:30] Most importantly in combination with human judgment and expertise, that's a very critical piece. Um, even though we talk about automation through agents, the combination of human agent expertise becomes critical and super important.
[00:03:43] Uh, the use of a agent in data management.
[00:03:45] Or simply providing.
[00:03:46] A new way of complementing, the existing work that can be automated systematically, so that it can be become more goal oriented so that you can do Dynamic planning reasoning and also some sort of a context analysis. Uh, so that is the critical difference between how we typically do automation previously in data management, compared to leveraging, a agents for data management,
[00:04:13] So next, when you look into the workload, for example, each of those workload, which are typically in a traditional, um, uh, data management. We, they, they are more rigid. We have a lot of rules surrounding that automation. Uh, so now, what how, what you're really doing is, we are embedding this,
[00:04:30] I uh, assistant which can then transform them to be more self-learning operating, so that it is capable of, as I said, it can do planning, it can do reasoning. And also it can execute workflow with some sort of a context awareness, uh, and through this process, as you can see, there are multiple types of agents that you start evolving. Uh, starting with an orchestration agent for example, uh, which can help you to coordinate and manage, uh, the complete entity and workflow based on real time, uh, resource contacts and and business priorities. So that it's not just based on a a particular, uh, time execution. It's ALS going to be based on your business priorities and next comes the data agent, which is primarily used for managing all your data management tasks.
[00:05:15] Starting from data injection to transformation to, uh, data cleansing to governance. Uh, it can also use to resolve data anomalies, it can resolve some conflicts. It can also help you to optimize your data workflows, uh, in every possible scenario that you can imagine. That's what data agents typically do. Then comes the model agents. Uh, mainly they use for context analysis, so that it can assess data within your business context, or within the operational context, uh, so that it can, uh, provide the property Regulatory and business requirement to help execute that workflow.
[00:05:51] And then, here are some of the types of agents that are applied to data management. Um, I want to start with the task based agent, which are we call them specialized,
[00:06:00] Agent, there are primary designed to responsible for performing a particular, single task, or maybe a narrow set of related tasks. Uh such as for example, if you want to fix a problem or or a particular error, or if you want to do some transformation work, or you want to do some integration work uh or you want to do some anomaly detection. These are single task based oriented, that's what tasks tasks based agent does. Then the orchestration is nothing but the culmination of bringing these multiple tasks agents together. So, that you can manage a workflow that can be orchestrated and that can be executed and the critical pieces that now, it can also start embedding a lot of these Dynamic planning and reasoning and also decision M making as part of the workflow so that the agents can self-learn.
[00:06:45] Self-reflect and work on executing those tasks. And finally, the multi-agent system, which is involves deployment of multiple AI agent uh which includes both task and orchestration agent. Uh, that can do some complex distributed heterogeneous, uh data environment workflows, uh they can be
[00:07:06] Used to facilitate the complete end-to-end data management. Uh in fact uh I've had clients who are and actually using these agents to create an end to end data products.
[00:07:18] So before we, uh, go into the, uh, how it's supplying data management.
[00:07:24] How do these uh, a agents for data management operates? Because we see a lot of agent.
[00:07:30] Washing right? Every vendor say that we have an agent or every company that I talked to, uh, now they use the term agents. But uh sometimes I see it's I think even some of the RPA workflows some of the detail workflow, what or even apis. Now, they've been renamed into agents but the most important thing is if you want to think about an agent agent needs to have these 4 core characteristics 1 is it needs to have a continuous monitoring capabilities so that it can understand your system logs, your data streams, your user behavior, and also your database tables more in real time so that you can not only do the traditional batch oriented, uh, workflow that can run on a fixed schedule. It can also immediately respond to the events as they occur.
[00:08:15] So, uh, that's the core characteristics. So it needs to constantly monitor so it can collect the data or the metadata helps support it. Next comes the planning, the planning requires you to have a pure play llm integration so that agents can leverage the large language models. And it can use some of the advanced logic to formulate an action plan for you, so that it can then decompose some of your complex.
[00:08:38] Uh, workflows or even sometimes the objectives so that it can then break down into some more manageable tasks, so that you can uh, make it more work. It more effectively without much, uh, disruption and with some using some sort of a conventional automation as well.
[00:08:53] Uh, the third piece comes as the learning piece, most of the agents, they also have, uh, a short term and a long-term memory.
[00:09:00] So as you execute these tasks, they can store all those information in memory so that they can learn from it, they can become more adaptive. Uh, so that it can do a lot of those predefined actions uh using uh, based on some of the reflection, uh, based on some of the learning. And finally, obviously 1 of the core characters of agent is to execute, uh, the task, uh, so that it so that you can make informed decision to help support your, um, initiatives, uh, something like like, generating a SQL query or maybe, uh, executing your data pipeline or even sometimes you can use it to optimize some of your storage resources, Etc.
[00:09:37] uh, the other biggest difference is that I think the agentic automation uh, not only it can do deterministic uh automation
[00:09:45] Can also do non-deterministic or reasoning. That's 1 of the key differentiation. And then, as you can see, it can also do a lot of these Dynamic planning and context analysis. Uh, so when we use agents agents doesn't mean that they shift from a traditional to uh, agentic but it can in addition to doing a traditional automation which are typically how we used to do it now it can also start incorporating some of the the newer capabilities that through agentic uh automation.
[00:10:13] So next we move on to uh talk about how it's really changing the data management functions um as a data management practitioner. Um, here are the 4 core areas that we have identified where agentic man uh AI is truly redefining the
[00:10:30] Management, uh, starting with data integration workflows. Uh, it enables organization to make your event-driven data pipeline. It can support with your code generation, obviously, all the 8 year workflows, um, and it also not only make changes it also adapted changes. Uh, sometimes a particular workflow is not meeting. Your SLA requirement, you want to be able to code to automatically, adapt to make those changes make those different because it's no longer going to be generated by human beings. Since it's going to be generated by agents, that they also have to make those adjustments automatically to help support those needs. And also finally integrating to your data Ops tools, uh, to help support your operational efficiency,
[00:11:09] Uh, next comes the data quality, uh, where it can continuously detect, uh, your data anomalies.
[00:11:15] Your schema changes your data drifts and you can also, uh, trigger a data remediation to maintain your data reliability, and data integrity. And then on the governance side, it can help you to enforce controls. Uh, it can help you to mask sensitive data. All the things that we typically do from a security and governance standpoint. Uh, agent can do a lot of those things, uh, based on the instruction that we provide and finally the multimodal decisioning where it can help you to support uh, rag pipelines, it can help you to do factorization. It can also help you to enhance your metadata and semantic, uh, which can help you to support some complex decision, making and insights.
[00:11:55] Uh, here is a very simple representative architecture of how you can integrate.
[00:12:00] Your AI agents into data management. Uh, what you see, I aie is basically integrated agentic experience. So when you think about, as I said before, many vendors are using the term agents, but when you start looking into what an agent,
[00:12:15] Uh, experience require you to have these components. Obviously, it needs to have a user interface where you can process them. But along with that, it also needs to have the, the tools and the memory components so that it can do planning reasoning and execute in a in a loop. Uh, also, it needs to have a variety of connectors to connect and and as you can see, there are different types of protocol. Uh, there are um a2a protocols. There are mcps those are most popular 1 um and the so you want to be able to support this protocol so it can connect
[00:12:45] To those variety of sources. And most importantly, it also needs to have its own built-in. Not just the orchestration layer which is for automation. It also needs to have its own context and semantic layer, uh, which would then connect to Yellow model, so they all need to be worked together to support this agentic, uh, experience. Uh, and that is something I think. Uh, uh, it's it's crucial for to make it more agentic, uh, from a data management standpoint.
[00:13:12] So now I'm going to uh, talk about uh some of the areas where agentic AI is disrupting. I want to start with data engineering, for example, um, typically we, as a data engineer, we focus on building and managing and executing those pipeline. But I think where the really the focus now shift,
[00:13:30] With agentic AI is. Now, you're going to be spending more time on context management, um, and also more on prompt engineering, so that you can instruct agents and, and provide the right relevant of context, so that agent can start building the workflows for you. Uh, starting with maybe ability for you to tap into your structured and structured data. Maybe build your rack pipeline, uh, so that it can start U providing some of those uh unstructured uh, content as part of your pipeline and most importantly, with the connectivity to your protocols. You can also start agent. Can also start helping you with uh, with tasks orchestration. Whether it's workflow creation or SQL management queries Etc. Um which is this is a new pattern that we are seeing. Uh, there's also a complimentary research that we just published.
[00:14:15] We call data engineering 2.0 which we go more deeper deeper detail into how you can leverage uh the agentic workflow for data engineering.
[00:14:25] Uh, the next comes the, the emergence of I call the importance of metadata and semantic layer. Uh, we touched upon a little bit on our yesterday's presentation on data fabric. But now, I think it becomes even more important because as we all know, uh, agent needs instruction, it needs context. It needs semantics. And that require you to have that unified semantic layer, uh, that help you to provide that instruction to the agent, not only to orchestrate and execute. They also need to have some sort of a guard rails. So that, uh, you are providing the right level of permissions, right? Level of context.
[00:15:00] Uh, so that they are not hallucinating. They are not misrepresenting or overstepping, uh, their intended scope. I think, uh, to help make sure that your, safeguarding your data Integrity, your privacy and compliance. So, there are many things. So when you talk about this whole metadata and semantic layer, it not just, I think we talked about this context as a, a broader subject. It is also the guardrails and all the safeguard that goes into it from a security standpoint so that uh agent can operate more holistically. And as you can see, the task execution rate, uh, drops significantly when you ask the contact center does go without relevant data. So data is underpinning for help you to support semantic layer and that's why.
[00:15:45] Data becomes a core foundation for agentic AI.
[00:15:49] And then on the database front, um, there are new capabilities that more and more vendors are adding, uh, obviously today, if you think about it, almost every database vendors offer, some sort of a a protocol mostly mCP, uh, some vendors offer, both mCP and a2a, uh, the key differences. MCP is more popular. It is, I think highly performant. So I think most of the offer these choices. But uh, so but the key thing is, I think they are now offering the ability for you to provide those connectors and the, the, the 3 core areas, where I think agent the AI really impact your data management is first on the agent memory. It allows agent to
[00:16:30] Retain the historical context the user preferences. It also enables a lot of the personalized interaction so that it can deliver the context of our experience to help manage your data management process, whether it's your DBA functions or your uh, queries or even your ETL pipelines, it can help you to process them more dynamically. Uh, next comes your knowledge source which is mainly used for um accessing your proprietary Enterprise data so that agent can generate those um high quality insights and also help you to make sure that your database meets your compliance needs. And finally, the tool provided help you to keep your agent agents to secure. Have secure interface to perform your data operations to your data integration, uh using all the core capabilities of database.
[00:17:15] Cases.
[00:17:18] and then on the data quality front, um,
[00:17:21] Agents not only help you to scale but it also help you to do some proactive monitoring and Remediation for that's the key thing because a lot of time we use data quality more as a reactive function and not as a proactive functions. So here, for example, agents can do runtime enforcement. Uh, so you, you can enforce data quality in more real time, uh, by setting up your pipeline, or you can,
[00:17:45] Pretty much stop or block a lot of the non-compliant action. So that only valid policy complaint data is processed. So you could kind of enforce, some of those things up front before it kind of runs through the system. Uh, obviously, it can also
[00:18:00] Also do automatic remediation. Uh, through drift detection. It can also minimize a lot of the manual intervention that you typically use for a remediation and finally agent can embed large log logic into your data product so it can detect and block lot of the pii information so that you're not um born to some of the compliance or regulatory risk and then finally, it can do self-healing capabilities so that it can autonomously identify and fix your data quality issues without human intervention.
[00:18:31] And then on the governance front uh you can see that it can automate wide variety of tasks on from data, classification to tagging to data quality to the compliance monitoring. Uh you can also be used
[00:18:45] In your catalog maintenance. And also uh so that's 1 of the thing is Agent can also help you to uh enrich your metadata enrich your semantic layer so that you can have a better capabilities for you to make your agent work uh more autonomously and more effectively.
[00:19:04] So now, let's look into in what ways, agentic is disrupting the traditional data management. Um, disruption number 1, I think uh it is moving from more, I would say we live in a more creation world into more self, cleaning word. And the first step is like, if you look at uh Phase 1 mainly it's used for a lot of code generation. Uh you probably seen more and more organizations are now leveraging agent to generate.
[00:19:30] Code. Um in fact I have 1 live example of 1, customers that I work with uh the stuff that they used to do in 3 months. Now they do it in 3 days with everything done using uh agent decoding. So we are. But obviously I think it's going to vary based on the maturity of uh different organization. But definitely there is a significant sheet that we are seeing that coding is the much you the the best place to start with agent, the next area of where agentic is really disrupting is around the, I call that data operation. When I say data operation, it doesn't mean that it's still work as a coworker because you still need to have an agent because agent can help you detect failure. It can help you to identify the root cause but then you still have to have the human intervention to help. Apply some of those fixes that becomes crucial. So,
[00:20:15] So uh that's where I think the operational aspect of agent comes into play. And then, the phase 3 is more about optimization where agent can eventually become your architect. Where it can help you to monitor your workload, you can help you to make adjustments to your workload based on your service level agreement. It can also help you to optimize different stack within your data management. Uh, whether that's data Ops, whether that's uh, storage or even uh, data processing Frameworks.
[00:20:44] And the next step of disruption is about on the integration side. Uh, as I said before, uh, we have
[00:20:52] Protocols. We have even Brokers that can directly be connected to these different systems. Uh, so now you have these connectors for
[00:21:00] Various apps, uh, that so agent can have real-time access to the STA. Uh, so that you can provide those insights more dynamically. In fact, this leads into an interesting discussion with 1 of my client is that? Hey now that I can do this do I really need a lake house? Like why can't I just leveraged agent and connect to my source? Uh because they all have contacts? But I think the challenge is same issue. Like, do I do data virtualization, or do I really use a lake house to do it? The answer is kind of both depending on the use case because it cannot scale. Uh especially when you use mCP connector to these different sources. Yeah, each 1 of those sources is going to have a context but then when you want to unify those contacts it's going to become challenging. And that's 1 of the reason why it's still. There's an elements for
[00:21:45] To build a lake house. Uh, but the, the, the truth is that I think with these agent uh shifting uh they are not just used from. The analytics point of view agents can also use to do some operational workloads. So I think that's was the core aspects of it, uh so that you can have it can help you to do a lot of things you can help you to maybe generate an invoice or uh uh, establish a purchase order. So that's the, the core characteristics of how agents are really enabling from a composable data integration standpoint.
[00:22:16] The third discipline is around the active metadata.
[00:22:20] So we talked about yesterday about how active metadata becomes the crucial thing for.
[00:22:27] For the data fabric. Uh, but
[00:22:30] What is more important is that that becomes in fact, even more crucial for agents. Because as I said, when you use active metadata, in the context of data fabric is primarily used for help you to do automation enablement. Whereas, with agents, it is going to help you to not only just do Discovery uh, from a automation standpoint. You can also help you to feed your semantic layer so that it can help you to guide and how to Leverage The Automation. And most importantly, it is also going to help you to enrich your metadata because then your data fabric can become even more stronger, much more robust to help support wide variety of Automation and orchestration.
[00:23:11] now, let's look into who are some of the leading vendors in the agentic, AI data management,
[00:23:15] Management. Um, when I put together this presentation, I had only limited vendors but there is a detailed research that was published last week. It has a whole list of more vendors than what I have here, uh, for those who have access to Gartner research. Um, so starting with I think when it comes to, um, uh, vendors, uh, you cannot put them into 3, major categories. Obviously, we, we want to start with hyperscalers. They are focused on broader data, ecosystem integration, so they not only provide agentic. Um,
[00:23:47] Agents to support certain data function. They also provide an agentic framework for you to help you build, uh, agents. So that it, they give you a, uh, a framework for you to build them. And then comes the I call.
[00:24:00] data platform, vendor, uh, who are who can
[00:24:04] Help you in moving to an intelligent data apps. Uh, that's kind of what their focus is on. And finally, there are lot of AI native vendors. That provides complete end-to-end capabilities for delivering agents. Uh, some of the vendors that we have listed here. Um, they are kind of newly evolving vendors and many of them are basically, for example vendors like Sierra, they do uh industry based agents. So they are working in certain industries where, uh, they have a bunch of Engineers like agentic strategies. All they work is building agents for uh, different vertical functions. So um, as you can see, from a technology perspective from a platform and from an industry perspective, there are a lot of women happening. We're also seeing a whole
[00:24:45] A bunch of um data quality vendors data, visualization, vendors, and data integration vendors. Uh, any any anyone you can imagine from a uh a data management center, including governance, uh they also have integrated agent capabilities to drive some of the Adaptive intelligence
[00:25:04] Um, and then in the realm of, uh, agentic data management. Um, obviously we have a wide variety of vendors starting from an orchestrator to Niche providers. But the big difference is now you also see uh, like traditional RPA automation vendors like automation anywhere or uipath, what they use. They also now, uh,
[00:25:27] Enhance their capabilities to do lot.
[00:25:30] The data management function including structured and unstructured data. Uh, they are particularly they are very effective in doing more. I will say deterministic and offer more robust integration, uh, and they have a lot of integration with, uh,
[00:25:44] Tools like Lan chain and Lang graph which help you to orchestrate more complex and advanced. Uh, for example like a lot of RPM Windows today, they they were primarily like in Salesforce so they can now integrate with Salesforce to do lot of the embedding agent directly to their application workflow. And similarly you can also use a control plane interface where you could then integrate your RPA tools with lung chain to deliver some of uh other Advanced capabilities for uh orchestration.
[00:26:15] And then now let's send it to how we we as an organization can prepare.
[00:26:21] And deploy agent.
[00:26:24] So the first thing I want to start with, there is a significant shift in the way, how you you want to look at your data management platform. Um it's like moving from your traditional data management. Lens to I call the new context of our data platform. Um so it doesn't mean that you have to completely re-architect anything, but you look into the traditional data management, there is a wall between what you do with structure data and what you do with unstructured data. Because we always started with up on the top, where we were building Lakehouse Warehouse, focusing on operational data data, Lakes, metadata that has been our core things. Where we start,
[00:27:00] Planning policies. Then, for the last, I would say 3 or 4 years. Now, we started bringing lot of these unstructured content, like, where you now started with the use of Genai, then you, then you start bringing documents, you know, bringing starting online content. That's a new area that we as a data engineer start.
[00:27:16] Inheriting and we started kind of building on policies even today they operate in silos. Uh lot of vendors today when when I talk to clients when they do a POC on on AI, they do either unstructured or structured like or um, so they the, the the the 2 are not like right now. I see them as kind of 2 different areas, but they're slowly. We are seeing some convergence with with the tagging and everything. So that we are seeing conventions, the best way to kind of look at. Is that how you can look into a
[00:27:45] Context of our data platform, like what you see on the right, uh, that helps you to enable the agents, so that you can, uh, build a rich semantic layer that can enable AJ AI agent to, um, provide that information to, to help kind of build those framework. Um, so when you think about that, it's still built on all the data mesh and data fabric principle that we typically use. Uh so that you can automate your metadata management, your policy enforcement and so that you can eliminate the need for you to do data copies. So that's where the zero copy concept comes into play where when you bring a structured and structured data along with metadata, you can have the ability to uh, provide some of the capabilities like vector net, any native Vector capability. So that you can
[00:28:30] Use those embeddings, uh, to combine and use the rag to combine your structure and structure data so that you can look at more holistically as 1 un, uh, semantic layer so that you can have your business ontology and so that it's like think of like a evolve evolution of a data fabric which would then help you to support the agents uh to drive insights.
[00:28:55] So, as far as the use case for agentic AI, um, the effort was the value is going to vary depending on the underlying Technologies, uh, because they are constantly shifting. Uh, if you if are like you, ah, ah, where do you want to start my agentic? AI journey, I would say, start with a data democratization, uh, where you can use your using your convention tools.
[00:29:15] So you can help your data prep for the business user. That's the easiest, I call the lowest hanging fruit where you can start, where you get more value out of it, uh, on the technical side. If you're I'm a data engineer or an a engineer, I would really focus on the pipeline orchestration or, uh, data quality, remediation, or working on some unstructured data processing, as a stack pipeline. So those are the 2 core areas where I would start when it comes to agentic and lot of vendors today. Uh, they are providing a lot of out of the box capabilities, to help support it, uh, so that you don't have to build it on your own. So you can really start integrating some of your existing processes into those agentic enablement, uh, pretty easily. And then, as you start looking into the more complex areas, that's where I think.
[00:30:00] For example, if you want to streamline your governance function or maybe you want to do some scenario planning, that's where you need, that complete, agentic experience, architecture, where you need to have, uh, the the, the whole, all those components will be integrated. Uh, that would require more, uh, that's when you want to look at some of those. I got specialized vendor, like, AI, native vendors or orchestration vendors to help support it.
[00:30:23] And then when it comes to uh prioritization uh I would say start with, I think uh if if I were you I want to first start with assessing your contacts Readiness of your data, uh and so that you can create some pilot opportunities for agents, uh, and then export your semantics and knowledge layer to their context of our platform. That would be the next thing. And then, finally,
[00:30:45] The ultimate goal is to obviously use it to create a complete end-to-end data product using agents, and also maybe shift your governance to more policy as a code principles.
[00:30:54] Um, here are some final takeaway. So, in terms of
[00:30:59] as I said we as a data Engineers or data management person, we need to shift our thinking so we no longer
[00:31:05] Building pract. We are not a practitioner for, for building pipes, and for analytical dashboard, uh, we are completely redefining. So, our goal is really to, hey, there's going to be a bunch of Agents that's going to do the things. Now, what our role is to, basically how I can build that census and memory for this agents or the agent, can be more autonomous, they can be more intelligent to help execute those tasks. So you are, you are thinking of like basically if you're an AR
[00:31:30] You are kind of a person who is helping, uh, to run the symphony so that the each of the agents can kind of execute things done. So, your goal is to really focus on helping building the metadata Foundation, um, providing the instructions to the agents so that they can work seamlessly. Um, so when you think about agentic AI, many times people think it is the model. Uh, it's not really the data context and many times. Even as, you know, even when you look at, like, when you talk about AI Readiness, uh, it's many organizations that, yeah, Readiness is directly tied to the data Readiness. So, uh, the key thing here is make sure that, uh, you can start with assess your contacts Readiness today. Um, invest in your semantics, uh, or storage. I think that's more critical. And then, uh, prepare your governance for the speed of
[00:32:16] And here are some recommended research that I would encourage you to, uh, read more about agentic data management. There are like 2 or 3 new research that we just got published which I couldn't add it to the slides. But uh for those you if you can search on Gartner you'll be able to find them and here is the survey link. Thank you so much.