[00:00:03] Good morning. Good morning everybody. Good morning. Welcome to day 2 of this. Fantastic conference. This is a chance for us to kick off another day, but also a chance maybe to reflect at this amazing time that we live in, uh, and so indulge me for a second. I thought epic time, let me write some epic music for us. Some of, you know, I'm a composer and musician in in my, my parallel life. So I wrote some music to kick us off. Let's have a listen.

[00:01:32] Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right. So a bit of a confession there, I wrote that music in 2 minutes.
[00:01:39] Uh, with a prompt that said, okay, I need some energetic epic music that maybe sounds a bit like this and I need full orchestration acquire and and it's supposed to have like changes in Dynamics and stuff. And so I put that prompt in 2 minutes later that came out.
[00:01:54] And it's convincing, right? It's convincing it. It does sound a bit like Game of Thrones like to be fair because that's the most common music. It was exposed to in the model.
[00:02:03] But what I so it's convincing musically enough. Um, but then I took it into my studio and listened to it and I realized all the panning is correct. The distance of the French horns in the background.
[00:02:15] And where the strings are placed like all that stuff that takes a really long time to actually get right was done. Like it was really really good but then I started to think about it and I realized I just put about 120 people out of work.
[00:02:26] For a week to do that. Uh, when I lived in Vancouver, I used to write music for film like this and it would really, it would take a long time to create it, but then you'd have copies that would, you know, create the parts. And then the orchestra would rehearse they'd be in the studio for a couple of days, you take that into another studio and you do all the mixing and stuff takes about a week. And so I thought about that I thought well how does that make me feel?
[00:02:49] That I did that.
[00:02:50] Uh and would I use it actually if I were in the field and I thought I thought about it because of, you know, I'm used to sort of the human aspect of music making. There's a part of that I don't want to
[00:03:00] Lose. But if I was on a tight deadline to write for a commercial,
[00:03:04] Yeah, I probably would if I were trying to write something to create an object lesson for a conference. Yeah, I probably would do that, but it does make you stop. And think, doesn't it? And so I asked the question, are we done? Is this really Beyond AI?
[00:03:18] When I started, uh, working on this keynote, a few months ago, I really wanted it to be Beyond AI, but it kept coming back into the fact that AI is a very real presence. But what I want to do today is to say, are we thinking hard enough
[00:03:31] Our Ambitions high enough or we really kind of pushing our own boundaries because it you know, when I stop and feel think about it, I feel kind of like this.
[00:03:40] Huh.
[00:03:41] right now, in truth, in the hype cycle of the
[00:03:45] The dots are all over the place. You know, there are some aspects of AI that are quite mature. There are some that are still being triggered, it really is all of our. But remember the hype cycle is about how you feel about something and there's a big part of me that feels like this. And so I wanted to unpack that a little bit and figure out. Well, why do I feel like that? And some of it is I think we've spent entirely
[00:04:05] Too much time thinking about AI as it applies to individual productivity.
[00:04:10] And we're never going to get the value. You know, that expected from that. But it also really limits the possibilities of this amazing thing that we have, right? So as I thought about it, I thought
[00:04:21] What's actually happening here is that we're at the beginning of an economic s-curve.
[00:04:27] But there are aspects of this that have been around for a while.
[00:04:30] So let me ask you a question and Peter might be good to bring the house lights up just a little bit. If we can, how many of you have been involved with AI for more than 10 years, put your hand up more than 10 years.
[00:04:40] Okay, more than 15.
[00:04:42] anybody more than 20,
[00:04:44] Ah, okay. There are a few right and so I'm going to ask you, they won't be able to hear you. But what did you do? 20 years ago in AI. What were you doing?
[00:04:52] Yes. Well,
[00:04:54] The 9th? Yeah. Started in the 90s. Yeah, so I I apply AI to everything. So not apply courses.
[00:05:06] Yeah, I applied AI so you had the theory but you weren't applying it necessarily at the time, right? That's my experience. It goes back about 25 years. I was running.
[00:05:15] Do the research relationship between Stanford University. Thanks, Peter. Um, and uh, we were talking about AI, then in the context of
[00:05:22] Of trust. And we had all the theory about what we didn't have was the compute. And that's what's really, what's really changed. So but there are other things in the AI spectrum that are quite mature, things that have been around for a long time, 1 of the first things that I do, when I go to an executive meeting or a board meeting,
[00:05:38] Is I study where that company has applied AI in the last 15 years like machine learning or something like that. And then I can, then I can really talk about the difference, like here's what's new. But as you know, for many non-technical Executives, AI suddenly appeared in January of 2023 and we've been fighting that battle.
[00:05:58] Ever since. Okay. So
[00:06:00] So let's think about this a different way. Um, there's this constant kind of pattern shifting between Randomness and orders so chaos where things are fairly misdirected and then trying to convert that into order.
[00:06:12] But as you know, the natural state of the world is fairly chaotic, and we're living that right now and trying to figure that out.
[00:06:19] All right, so to move from Randomness to order, we need to think about what they have. So aspects of Randomness that we're dealing with uh external.
[00:06:28] Things like citizen demographics. We have an aging population that isn't being balanced out by by by birth rates, you have geopolitical disruption, you're living that right?
[00:06:38] You know, the 1 of the first questions I get asked is about sovereignty.
[00:06:42] and so just for full transparency, I'm a
[00:06:45] Canadian Living in the United States, which is strange right now and uh, The Sovereign conversation outside. The United States is a very, it's a very disruptive thing. You're living that too.
[00:06:55] Climate change things like employee demographics. Now, what we're trying to do is we create order by creating platforms platforms. Make it easier to do hard things.
[00:07:05] Um the other thing would be operating models. Can you change your operating model to actually adopt to and then adapt to the the innovations that we have and things like automation. So we want to get there and for some things in AI
[00:07:17] We aren't there but it takes work and that's why you're here this week. And so you're thinking thinking about things like modernization.
[00:07:26] or pattern recognition as things looking for upskilling and
[00:07:30] Reskilling your people. These are means to get from Randomness to order data preparation and so on, but it takes effort.
[00:07:36] Okay. Now, you know, at the beginning of an s-curve, what are the aspects of the beginning of an s-curve? Is you waste a lot of money. You spend a lot of money, you waste a lot of money and most of us don't have the luxury of doing that but 1 of the things that's happening, as a result of all of the spending is it's firing off innovation in other things like there are parallel S curves that are happening at the same time. So all of the Innovation for example in semiconductor
[00:08:00] open source AI has become really a much better alternative to the big expensive Foundation models Quantum. That I'll talk about in a few minutes. Quantum is the space for Quantum has been has been narrowed a bit by the ability of of AI and multi sort of massive, parallel computing.
[00:08:15] Uh, but it's still important. Ontologies. If there's only if there's 1 thing, you remember from the keynote yesterday and what I'm going to talk about here is the power of ontologies to control the way your data gets used. It's so important, especially in a world, where agents are coming in, the vendors, are all coming in and wanting you to give wanting you to give them your data. And then you'll pay to use it, right? That's a situation. You need to be in control of the way to do that is through semantics.
[00:08:40] World models as well which I'll talk about in a second. So this is It's really if you're going to create an agent or a robot you need to define the world that they're working in. So they know the scope of decisions that they can make and how to interact sovereignty comes up here as well, so Sovereign Solutions, uh, disinformation security, the creation of of defects and so on, it's a fascinating area.
[00:09:00] Do you know that um there are technologies that you can use like on a zoom call that will determine if the blood is flowing in the capillaries of the skin of the person you're talking to.
[00:09:11] It'll check for liveness. There are liveness detection techniques and so on.
[00:09:15] Creepy, that we have to do that, right? But it's, it's actually very real. And then the last 1 here, the compute topology, um, as models, get smaller and you can do inferencing on smaller, silicon. You can place that lots of places across your topology anywhere from an injustice, therapeutic. All the way to a satellite and everything in between. And what it's done is, it's taken the cloud model and broken it out, across the entire topology. And you can place information inferencing, uh, and insight anywhere that you need it. All of this stuff is has, has been kicked off, and
[00:09:45] Accelerated.
[00:09:46] By the spending and AI eventually. What will happen is? These curves will combine. They'll catalyze and combined. So that's exciting, right? And lots of innovation to use and get your your mind around some of it has settled, some of them are platform and some of them are
[00:10:00] but it still leaves me feeling.
[00:10:02] So what, you know, are we using all of that power to do things that change the world?
[00:10:09] Um, so on Saturday Sunday, when I, when I was here I had the day.
[00:10:13] To, you know, go explore a bit and I went over a cross the river to uh The Observatory, the Greenwich Observatory. And of course they you know, you go in the Prime Meridian is there and you take your picture on it and then you realize there are 5 other parameters Prime meridians there and it follows through
[00:10:30] History. And so at 1 Moment Like Holly created a primary and in the world oriented itself to that model for the for a, you know, a cup, she doesn't years, then the science got a bit better and the primary and moved and we reoriented around that 1 and then so on. But what was happening is that the technology got better?
[00:10:48] Right.
[00:10:49] And I was thinking of this big telescope there and often I think of AI as like a telescope or an electron microscope in that. It allows us to see patterns that we intuitively think are there but haven't been able to see
[00:11:03] and 1 of the interesting things I've been tossing around is the fact that not all hallucinations are bad like maybe hallucination from you know a model that's getting smarter and smarter actually shows us something
[00:11:15] That we've missed.
[00:11:16] Uh and you see applications of this in healthcare and other places. So here was a problem they were trying to solve longitude and time.
[00:11:24] And then they're applying all kinds of science to solve that problem. So that shipping would be more consistent and so that you would have a more regular, you know, ability to control navigation and Supply chains and so on. So the problem they were trying to solve for was this problem of longitude, which was really hard and you have scientists arguing about what the right way to do it. The astronomers, see, it 1 way the physicists, see it a different way that, you know, and so on but eventually, it, it, it coalesces into into this thing. That's the kind of trigger I want. It's like, what's the big problem? That AI is worth solving?
[00:11:55] so here's a few ideas and so maybe it's improving the quality of life and health and I'm going to go into
[00:12:00] To that in some more depth. What about work life balance? Do you remember there was an article in the Wall Street Journal a couple of months ago. It was a study of companies that had were creating great productivity for their workers and burning them out even faster. If you had this experience, like, you're becoming more productive you in this Gap, suddenly fills with more work,
[00:12:19] That's not Humane, right? Is that the right aspect of using AI? Interestingly in Jamie Diamond's letter to stakeholders a few weeks ago, he makes an argument for a shorter work week. We can give people time back the more that they use these tools to be determined if Jamie follows through on that right. It's kind of an odd messenger for that but that's I mean we should be not just replicating the tasks that people do by automating those those tasks if that's true, then the jobs go away.
[00:12:45] If what we do is sort of rein, what jobs are and what the humans role in an organization is then we're on, then we're on to something.
[00:12:53] We want about solving Global Climate issues. Um, the there's a lot I could say about sort of the exchange of money amongst the Magnificent 7 that sort of fake circular economy that exists among the big vendors. That's not going to last, right? It's not going to last, but 1 of the things that's happening is you're spending gazillions of dollars on these enormous data centers that suck all the power out of the Earth.
[00:13:14] And create a lot of climate damage, shouldn't we be using AI to help us? Figure out how to train AI more effective effectively let's ask it.
[00:13:22] You maybe it has ideas, right? In terms of what are better ways to do it? I think what'll happen. I'm just started formulating this. I was talking to some of the
[00:13:30] Some of the members yesterday about the, you know, the parallel between the, the 2000 Bubble Burst and what I think will happen with, the AI bubble is that sort of fake economy around, it will come apart. And what we're left with is the real thing upon, which we start to build and scale, and we have more control over, that's that's coming. Um, creating new materials. So, using generative design to figure out lighter weight, stronger materials for, for certain things that we do for pharmaceuticals. I know some of you are doing
[00:13:57] Diagnosing rare disease, you know especially complex diseases and then reducing power consumption versus driving it up. Uh 1 of the things that we learned from China with deep seek is that they didn't have the same kind of access to the compute power. So they had to innovate in other ways, they innovated in the math, the innovation,
[00:14:15] Ated in the way the models got trained, not that it is perfect, right? But it can those constraints constraint based Innovation, is is essential in order to get us to a better place.
[00:14:25] The other thing, um, that I've been we've been studying, is what does it mean to make this beautiful technology disappear because that's when, you know, it works. It's really working. So think of doctors doing, uh, ambient scribes. So this, you know, you're have a visit with your patient, they're in the office with you, you're having a conversation with them and it used to be the doctor would be taking notes or not. And then they'd have to try to remember. Or they're using a, you know, voice dictation thing. Increasingly the doctor doesn't have any to do anything at all other than talk to you.
[00:14:55] and so what doctors are saying is that yeah, the errors are being reduced but I actually
[00:15:00] Actually, the quality of care is going up. Why is that? It's because the conversation builds trust and the more trusted the relationship, the better the information that is then captured by the ambient system.
[00:15:11] So you end up with a much more, a higher resolution type of data coming from that and it's invisible to both of them. Where I'm seeing this in software engineering is in requirements Gathering. So, getting a bunch of smart people together into a teams meeting, that know what the system is supposed to do record that teams meeting. And then interrogate the transcript for the requirements and there's an emerging sets of tools that will actually be prototyping as you're talking, so you can walk out of that meeting with the uat environment.
[00:15:40] and so people are actually writing less to do that, but what they're doing is they're upleveling their
[00:15:45] Their intellect to say, here's what the system needs to do. Here's the value, it needs to create it. Create? And then you're using these assistive tools to get you to a better specific specification. Then that creates stories and those stories, tell the developers what to Vibe code. So they're not just doing it, you know, out sort of in the wild and then you have a set of things that checks that at the end and so on. And what I'm finding is that software engineering parts of the organization are moving, an order of magnitude faster.
[00:16:11] I had a a a software engineering leader say to me if a few weeks ago, this is the first time time in my career, I haven't had a backlog.
[00:16:19] Huh.
[00:16:20] That's interesting. And what happens then is the it shop is moving faster than the business can absorb when have we ever been in that kind of position, it's very unusual.
[00:16:30] Visual right? And then a couple of things happen. 1 is the demand will increase because you're more efficient or you actually have to say how much should I build uh, in this the the um, the desire to build things and the ease of building things is making us ask questions like what's the future of SAS providers? Um, and I, you know, we asked this question. I had a CTO on stage a couple of months ago, and I asked him in in front of their people, I said, well, would you Vibe code to CRM system?
[00:16:56] Um and without skipping a beat, he said, absolutely yes.
[00:16:59] But then we got into well why or should you and you know the cost of having to maintain and stuff. But what this does is it puts a lot of pressure on our traditional vendors to actually deliver to us in a very different way. This is coming, okay, so let's take 1 of these specifically so improving
[00:17:15] Quality of uh, of life and health.
[00:17:19] so about a decade ago, um, researchers at Harvard Med school did a strange experiment
[00:17:26] It's called the Young Blood experiment. Some of you may be familiar with this where they took an old mouse.
[00:17:32] And a young Mouse and they sewed them together.
[00:17:36] So that their plasma would Exchange.
[00:17:38] Called parabot is is the field and what happened is the old mouse got younger.
[00:17:45] It's gray hair turned black. Again, the organs that had started to swell from age, actually started to shrink back to normal size and so on the young mouse got older a little bit older. So it was kind of averaged out the age of their
[00:18:00] Plasma.
[00:18:01] Freaky right. Um, but what was actually happening is that the generative Pathways in the older Mouse were reactivated, because it was exposed to the context of the younger Mouse. And so it actually reactivated its own ability to get younger interesting, and this has gone on so you can there are actually in the pet pharmaceutical Market. There are vaccines and things that you can get to actually extend the life of of your pets. Um, but the goal of the young blood experiment was to help everybody reach the age of 120.
[00:18:31] And so, the idea being that within most of our lifetimes, it won't be unusual to live to 120. All right. So this is a bit of audience participation for a couple of minutes. I want you to turn to your neighbor for a few minutes and talk about whether you want to live to be a
[00:18:45] 120 years old and then we'll come back and talk about it. So just a couple minutes, talk to each other. Do you want to be 120? Let me know.
[00:19:08] All right, let's come back and let's come back and ask about this. Okay, all right, who who here absolutely wants to live? To be 120 years old. Absolutely, okay, not that many, but a few. Okay, I'm going to come to you and ask you and I'll repeat what you say, why do you want to live to be 120?
[00:19:28] Life is good.
[00:19:30] Right. How many? Because they don't want to miss what's coming next? Like sort of fear of missing out as a motivator that kind of a thing, right? And how many absolutely would do not want to live to be 120 years old, like absolutely dumb. So shout out a couple of reasons why right here. Why do you not want to live to be 120?
[00:19:46] I don't think that I have a good life that I'm 100 years old, Quality of Life, Starts to diminish, right? And this is really the key, most people, when I ask them this question and say, yeah, if I could be healthy, you know, if I could be, you know, if my body kept working in song, there's a lot of things about the body that aren't engineered to last to last that long. The best answer. I think I ever got though a few weeks ago was. Well, it depends how I feel when I'm 119 so true. I'm just trying my best to get happy.
[00:20:15] Way there, I feel feel good. And so a bit of a personal story, it has a has a point but about the same time as they were doing the young blood experiment, I found myself diagnosed with stage 4 lymphoma. Uh, and just in case you're confused. I'm the 1 on the left there in that picture. Uh, but while I was, um, in Yale New Haven Hospital, smilow Cancer Hospital. This seagull came and visited me all of the time, right after I got, my diagnosis was the strangest thing, but I grew up in Nova Scotia on the east coast of Canada where seagulls were like part of my world model like seagulls are in my world model. And so I thought okay this is a sign, the seagull's coming, but it was around the same time, uh, you know, the morning that the team that had been looking at me, uh, because I didn't have a diagnosis, yet came in and they said, wow, Chris, we think you have cancer. And of course, when you get
[00:21:00] You know, a diagnosis like that. You think you want it to be anything else, right? And so I said, well, can it be something else? It really? And I never forget what they said to me. They said we hope not because we know how to treat that and obviously they did, right. So I'm I'm still here but so I gave it over to them. Kind of said, okay, you're the experts I want you, I like I believe, you know what you're doing, but like a nerd, right? I want to understand everything that's happening. So down the hall from the room that I was in. They would meet every day in what's called a tumor board. Um, so this is them.
[00:21:30] They happen to be looking at a brain tuber in this case. But what they would do is they would get together and from all of their individual disciplines debate, what the next step of treatment should be for patients, that were there in the ward. Amazing. And so, and so they're, they're making these
[00:21:45] Decisions based on available testing based on, you know, the history of other patients and so on. And I thought, well, before I go into this next section, I want to say, I never want these people to go away, right? But imagine if they were augmented,
[00:21:58] So, here's an idea.
[00:22:00] and this comes from sort of an amalgamation of research that's out there in the field, where you take,
[00:22:05] A problem space that has a ton of data multimodal data, so images, log information. Uh all those types of things you feed it then into uh a set of Agents. So you have an agent that um is like a specialist in hematology another 1 that's a specialist in scans another 1 of the types of tests that are available and so on and each of them takes that data and goes off and reasons.
[00:22:30] About it based on their domain, right? They don't like the hematology 1 doesn't know anything about the test. It just knows about hematology. So they go off and they do this work, and then they come back together and then all of their Chain of Thought outcomes are compared in what's called a chain of debate. And so, that chain of debate is then challenged by another agent that sort of thing. Well, what if or there's new data sort of really checking and challenging? Now, there are humans all along this Loop, right? So interacting with it and training it.
[00:22:58] And then an action comes up as a result. And so until about 2 months ago, this was sort of happening in controlled experimental environments. But what what the results were is, especially for differential diagnosis. The accuracy. The accuracy is about, 87%, so zero shot.
[00:23:15] Never seen the case before and the the multi-agent system gets to about 87% accuracy, compared to 26% of humans alone.
[00:23:24] And so like a full, I'm talking about this example at um 1 of the big hospitals Mount Sinai in New York City. While the doctors in the audience are peer reviewing this study, right? So they start peer reviewing me on stage and throwing questions and so on it was like a it was a live example of expertise bias right in the in the room but they're right. I mean there's certain you know they're always problems with experience but even if directionally that's correct, imagine the power of a multi-agent system working alongside human domain experts in a complex case like this. Now what I want you to do is think about a pattern
[00:24:00] Where you have a complex decision that needs to be made where such a system could be useful.
[00:24:04] The reality is a building a system like this right now is the the cost of tokens.
[00:24:10] The token cost to run, it is extremely high. That's why context is so important that. So we're talking about Context Engineering because it's a way of offloading. The token cost into a shared context.
[00:24:21] okay, so what's the next step here, it might be that
[00:24:24] These agents are firing off another set of of agents to do something next level deeper.
[00:24:30] Or maybe they're using what's called a physics? Informed neural network, uh, which is used to study anything that can be defined with a differential equation. And so this would be um, you know, the the um, the biomechanics of soft tissue fluid dynamics.
[00:24:45] ICS, how blood flows. Uh, interestingly, it can be used for other things that have nothing to do with the physical environment. But it's a way of controlling, uh, how things how things work. Um, the, the other thing about this just to get technical for a second, the way that it works. If you remember the differential equations actually, there are multiple correct answers to a differential equation. And when you use a pin physics, informed neural network, it will only let the acceptable answers through. So it's a way of constraining, the the outcome space so that it's extremely accurate.
[00:25:13] What if there are actually firing off Quantum algorithms. And so, these are not quantum computer algorithms yet. But there are things where you could do simulation, uh, or or sensing or testing, or eventually using some form of quantum compute to do this. So, this is kind of growing out in this.
[00:25:30] Direction and the stuff around the edges here has been influenced by the amount of investment that's happening in AI. So all of this kind of coming together but what we're doing is 2 things 1, we're using the the body as a compute platform
[00:25:43] And sometimes, I mean, that literally right. So, using the chemistry of the body to help make therapeutic decisions autonomously, if you have an insulin pump and an insulin meter, they talk to each other based on your body chemistry, and adjust the dose that's using the body as a compute platform. There are increasing numbers of of other things including like, outlandish, stuff like plug in your brain into the internet, right? So that's that's another question. How many would actually use neural link and plug your brain into the into the internet? Uh, there's a yes a big. Yes back here. If you few big guesses. Yeah. Um
[00:26:15] I suppose it depends how much Elon is going to see that data depending on terms of how I would would do it. Um, but you can think of, you know, of cases where it actually might be useful, but how many of you watch Black Mirror?
[00:26:27] Black Mirror, there was an episode in the last season, where a woman has a TIA, a little stroke, and loses part of her, her brain functionality. And I'll give away the story here. Um, but fortunately, there's a backup.
[00:26:38] In the cloud. And so she backs up the, you know, the data and she's functional and she's fully functional for a while. Until she starts saying this clicker is the best clicker in the world and it can be yours for 1999.
[00:26:51] And so this starts happening more and she calls customer service and they said, oh yeah, yeah, we're just an experiment. If you want to remove the ads, you need to jump up to the next subscription level.
[00:27:00] And on and on it goes, right? So maybe there are some some, uh, some call backs. The other thing is we've built a digital twin of the body and the more resolution we have, the more effective, the Therapeutics can be, all right. Let me talk a little bit more about the the neural network, the the pin stuff, the physics, informed neural network, because it's an important concept and some people know about it but a lot don't
[00:27:19] Again the idea is that you can train you can create a loss function based on the differential equation so that it challenges the output of the model so that it's always accurate. So you get acceptable predictions out of a model like this. And so I talked about biomechanics of soft tissue and so on. But there are other things that you can do
[00:27:37] Fascinating, so modeling risk.
[00:27:40] Uh, diagnosis, I talked about options pricing. So I have some clients in Capital Market.
[00:27:45] And and investment that are using these to predict what's going to happen in the market. Strangely accurate.
[00:27:51] Oil reservoir simulation is another technique so worth exploring just and again in use like I'm not talking about something that's coming and not in use people are using this and it and it's and it's definitely worth exploring.
[00:28:03] Okay, so I mentioned Quantum, this is not a Quantum talk every time I think I understand it. I, I question my own understanding, um, but Quantum means so many things I want to take just a minute and
[00:28:15] Clarify it. Um, so quantum computers exist, but they're custom and they built on different types of architectures. I've seen them some of you probably have as well. You know, the chemistry is hard, you need to get it very, very cold, their noise.
[00:28:30] Which then disrupts the optimization and so on but they exist World economic Forum. Uh, raised Quantum is 1 of 2 technology risk Global risks this year, in their risk report. The other is AI. The reason they raised it is because they're concerned about a rush towards. Uh, a quantum computer, stable enough to break encryption, they will run the algorithm. That will break all the encryption in the world and enable a bad actor. Nation state actor, potentially to decrypt information and the race towards that goal is unlikely to be shared, especially in the geopolitical climate that we live in. And so the call from the world economic forum, is, we need to regulate this in the same way that we've regulated, the nuclear industry and, and, and put guard rails around this.
[00:29:13] So it's coming. The message I want.
[00:29:15] To give to you here is it's no longer the mythical ten years away. It's probably 6.
[00:29:21] 6 or 5 years where we'll have an A noiseless environment stable enough to be used for good and for bad.
[00:29:29] but before that, uh, there are lots of things you can do with Quantum that don't involve a quantum computer, things like Quantum sensing or simulation uh, security like to, to prove prepare for that the um, the the decryption problem you use, quantum, safe, encryption techniques that
[00:29:45] Quantum, we don't think will break. Um, and but I want to talk about. So I'm going to continue the healthcare theme here and talk a little bit about Quantum sensing
[00:29:53] So Quantum sensing is is a very, very, very sensitive way of picking up a specific type of signal in this.
[00:30:00] Case. These are our body signals 1 is the magnetic activity around the heart, the electrical activity around the heart and the other is in the brain. So in the heart you can use it alongside an MRI imaging machine to get a much better, uh, view of what type of heart attack somebody's having, whether it's 1, that will be treated with medication or 1 that will land you in the ICU. And so it's, it's amplifying that the bottom 1 is, is fascinating to me. So you've seen Prosthetics that have leads that attach to the end of the arm, or the end of the limb, and it's picking up, sort of nerve signals. And then you can move, uh, and but what's happening with the, the quantum sensors? It's picking up magnetic activity at the neuron level around. The intent to move the hand, and so it'll pick up that intention.
[00:30:45] You don't have to be attached to the hand, you can move it by thinking about it by the intention of moving it, that to me is phenomenal. And think about the, the how that could be used for people that are catastrophically paralyzed, their ability to interact with the world in a very different way and being locked in. So, we're just at the edge of these. These are working examples, some of the other things happening in Quantum, a lot happening in the battery space. So topological batteries, Quantum batteries are a thousand times more efficient and considerably smaller than the battery technologies we have today. A lot of the audio auto companies that I work with are doing this now and also Quantum stimulation in drug Discovery because what you're studying is the movement of molecules and atoms how they interact with cell walls. And so on, that's a Quantum problem, maybe a simple way of thinking of quantum is that it's aimed at optimization in the physical.
[00:31:30] Physical world. Whereas AI is mostly aimed at optimization or other types of problem solving in the digital world. They inter, they interact. It's not that clean. But that's maybe a way of thinking about it, uh, in terms of quantum entanglement,
[00:31:42] So this is Einstein's. Train strange action at a distance where molecules can become atoms, can become entwined with 1 another. So in action here does the same action here, uh, and you there's some things, some applications of that in networking um, and sort of safety and Quantum key distribution using a technique like this, so that you have entangled stuff, you know, being the entangled here, entangled here. If it reaches this side and they're not the same, it means it's been tampered with, so it doesn't decrypt on the other end, so the fancy techniques. There are, uh, also some experiments with matter.
[00:32:15] Where up to about 6, grams of entangled matter, you can manipulate it in 1 place in the entangled matter, changes in the other side, so you can actually manipulate matter if that's not connected. The idea being there is that we can send, entangled matter, to Mars, manipulated in the lab on Earth, so that structures are ready when we get there.
[00:32:33] That's so that fascinating right? Another 1. I'm not sure if I believe is that there's some some people that have a theory that Financial networks are entangled that they actually communicate faster than human communication or even digital communication can. So they're in, they change instantly reminds me of, um,
[00:32:50] 2008, I was here in London, giving a similar talk in about 10 minutes into the talk. I realized everybody's not paying attention to me, they're looking at their phones or their laptops. It was the day that Layman
[00:33:00] Brothers fell.
[00:33:01] And you know it was it was that they watched people with boxes and Canary Wharf walking out of their offices and stuff. But at that instant apparently what happened is that other markets reacted instantaneously to that event faster than they could explain. And so there's I'm not I'm not bought into this but I do think it's interesting. That maybe there's entanglement happening in ways that we don't fully understand
[00:33:21] Uh we sometimes also get asked what's the relationship between AI?
[00:33:26] And Quantum does, Quantum replace AI know, it's solves, a different type of problem, right? You can do more Quantum, like types of problem, solving, using massive, parallel Computing. That's the power that comes along with that investment. I talked about earlier has made it possible to approach these this kind of problem, but where it's really useful is in.
[00:33:45] Creating the context for the quantum gate to process and then interpreting the results coming out. Uh, Microsoft's chip has a Quantum, uh, the gate array right next to an AI CMOS. They sit on the same physical chip. Because they're interacting in similar ways. Very interesting stuff. So it's, it's worth paying attention to and worth actually having a strategy for. It's not going to be the quantum. Computing is not going to be a steady kind of ramp. It's going to be much more like a hockey stick when it happens. The like when the quadratic equation was solved hundreds of years ago, multiple parties were working on it around the world. They were not communicating with 1 another but actually it all kind of happened at the same time. I expect that to happen. What will happen and this is more than I have time to go into
[00:34:28] Is you're going to access?
[00:34:30] Quantum as a service when it comes along along with other fancy stuff like photonics and neuromorphic Computing and so on there'll be a a substrate and you'll access it through a proxy. Uh This research comes from what's called Gartner for Tech professionals where they're building out the reference architectures, to do this kind of thing. And so simplifying it, so that you basically ask for what you need and then the system takes care of putting it all together.
[00:34:53] Okay, so we talked about digital twin of people. What about digital twin of the Earth? What you see here is from Leo labs and it's an image live image of everything. That's orbiting the Earth right now.
[00:35:05] With the the debris filtered out. So I set the filter so you don't see the debris. If I turn that on, you don't see anything at all. There's so much junk floating around up there.
[00:35:15] Nasa uses Quantum stimulation to predict when a space debris will hit a satellite. So if you think about that, it's a physical problem with a lot of Dimensions. Uh, it's like that's that kind of problem but we're building this digital twin of the earth and it's giving us a vision of the earth that we have never had before uh where you have centimeter Precision. So if you're an insurance company, insuring an HVAC unit on the top of this building, you could use this kind of, you know, Imaging to look for meantime to failure and actually do micro policy payouts before the thing breaks down, so you're participating.
[00:35:47] In that way, you have analytics that you might run on the satellite because that's the most efficient place to do it. You can do inferencing up there in the satellite and then send the the results back down to earth. The other thing, uh, Quantum navigations.
[00:36:00] So this is the use of quantum positioning um in places where GPS is likely to get blocked or doesn't exist. So think in war zones or if you have you know, oil fields in in you know, parts of the world, where there's disruption happening. Some in subserve, for example, where GPS jamming happens, you can use quantum navigation to be a very, very precise about where you are. So lots of really interesting, interesting things happening. So we've built a world model.
[00:36:26] Literally a world model. So I'm going to say a couple words about this. How much you use a world model anybody uh experiment with Earth AI from Google or similar things where you can ask questions of maps and and get sort of it, it combines demographic information. You can ask interesting questions. I think that's really interesting but
[00:36:45] 1 of the other applications that I'm studying is what about, and again, starting with the healthcare theme, this is a smart exoskeleton. Uh, and it does a couple of things 1, is that it improves? So it's therapeutic. It improves the gate, it studies the gate.
[00:36:58] Of the person and helps to improve that, but it's also aware of its surroundings.
[00:37:04] So it's good at avoiding obstacles some of that right now. Well, most of that right now is through sensors, but you can imagine feeding it a world model based on the, the digital twin of the earth. What I'm talking about to actually help it navigate. And so maybe the navigation, includes making sure that the SAT the sidewalk I'm going on actually has an indentation or ramp that can go up and sort of helping to make decisions. So it's taking its World model view and and improving its navigation.
[00:37:30] All right, let's talk about Role Models just for a second. Um,
[00:37:34] if you think about an agent or a robot like this 1 here, they need to know how to navigate their environment, whether it's a digital environment, or a physical environment. So, if I'm building a robot for an operating room, um, it may be that, you know, this, this, you know, the model, the robot needs to understand well, who are the people, who is the doctor, what do they do, what's the head nurse? Who's the anesthetist, what's the, you know, the choreography of the particular procedure, how hard do I need to grasp this object if I'm handing it around. So there's a haptic aspect of the world model too. In ancient is the same. So even the agent functioning in a customer service domain or whatever it needs to know, what's a customer? What's the difference between this 1 or that 1? How do I interact? How do I handle exceptions? Like what are my acceptable actions?
[00:38:15] Um, and again, just on the hallucination bit.
[00:38:18] There was a story, remember, about a year and a half ago from Air Canada, um, where somebody had flown to a funeral and when they came back they called called, uh, Air Canada, to get a diss, like, the bereavement fare sort of refund. And, of course, they're interacting with the customer service agent, you know, sort of a chatbot AI agent basic 1. But what ended up happening is that the agent gave them, the fair, gave them the discount even though it didn't exist in the policy.
[00:38:46] Huh. And what happened after that is that multiple entities was responsible for that decision that out of policy decisions and of maybe stepping back and saying maybe they did the right thing.
[00:38:56] like, maybe this synthetic empathy is the agent and the need of
[00:39:00] The, the customer led to say this is the optimal solution for this problem.
[00:39:04] And you learn from that, like, that's actually probably the, the better thing, but so World models are important. Okay? So how do we build them?
[00:39:11] Yes. Ontologies and metadata and taxonomies and and those types of things, but who's good at, building them or game developers.
[00:39:20] Uh because you think about what these agents are robots. They're not non-player characters in a game. They don't have a human controlling them but they know how to navigate in that environment. You know how to work with humans, how to negotiate into difficult problems to become part of teams and so on. But they do that within a very well-defined domain or level in the game. And so if you're interested in kind of pushing the edge on using techniques like this
[00:39:45] Hire some game developers, you might only have them for a couple of years, but I'll tell you what, there are a lot of 20 somethings out there on the market right now that cannot get jobs because we're holding back on hiring because we're so focused on the productivity thing, right? This thing instead of saying well how do we use people in a different use? How do we leverage people in a different way for what they know to help us see our environment in a different way? So it's just a bit of encouragement for you.
[00:40:09] Okay. Now I want to finish off talking about uh intelligence because the other question of course we get is what about AGI? Artificial general intelligence. Um so I I spent a few minutes thinking about that now as humans. Um
[00:40:23] Of course, I think therefore I am, but what about AI does, AI thinq does. It know, does it?
[00:40:30] Have these attributes. Um no not really. Uh but if you think about knowledge as
[00:40:37] Sort of a, a biomechanical compute mechanism that is able to conjure up answers to questions. What does it mean for a human to know something?
[00:40:47] Like how do we know if that stuff? I think, you know, the way the brain works is, is probably more like a Quantum machine in that it holds all of the possible memories at the same time and we conjure them out by bringing them into reality, into a world model and then they go back and they go back in and enriched form. And that might be, why that super positioning of ideas, might be why the brain is so effective.
[00:41:10] what we're seeing in some new models, is the super positioning of
[00:41:15] Ideas within the neural model itself in machines, where they're stacking unrelated Concepts in the gra, in their own internal graph, and are pulling those things out within context, feed it the right context, it knows which superposition to stop and it pulls that idea out. Very interesting. All right, but what about this? So as Homo sapiens, uh, people who know, we know and tell stories about it.
[00:41:37] We're anthropocentric.
[00:41:39] And we think we're the best thing ever. And we anthropomorphize and all of these things are very natural. So we anthropomorphize things, we don't understand. It's a way of relating to things that are really complicated and making them seem friendlier. Uh, that comes at a cost though. Because if we think that AI is like us, then we limit it, we limit it because
[00:42:00] We don't fully understand how we work and if we're trying to model it after us, then we actually limit the potential of where it might go. So we're very anthropocentric and we think we're the we're the best but let me let me give you an idea.
[00:42:11] what if AI is more like,
[00:42:13] Uh, other things.
[00:42:15] Maybe it's not if it's more like biomimicry and so you have bees on 1 side and ants on the other. These colonies are like a set of independent agents that are functioning against a master plan of some kind.
[00:42:27] Uh, so in the case of bees, they're building a colony building a hive if if you know and and they can you know, they're adjusting to that. What's interesting? The difference between ants and bees? I've learned is that in in ants, If part of the colony dies off, others will fill in the gaps. They'll take over some of those roles but they're not really aware of what
[00:42:45] The other ones are doing but there is a model that they follow. So in the case of ants, it's the pheromone Trails. So if an ant is of like a volunteer and goes out to find a new food source if it finds 1, it'll lay a pheromone Trail to say. Yeah, there's food here come follow me and then the other ants will adjust themselves to that. So those are interesting models. Now, recently, there was an experiment with a reasoning model.
[00:43:08] That that mapped its activities in a Knowledge Graph. That's what you see here and so it's mapping its activities like a Knowledge Graph. The the nodes are ideas and so on but you seem interesting Behavior. So if you look at the top uh left hand corner.
[00:43:22] Um, it goes out to that node once and doesn't come back.
[00:43:26] On the bottom right hand corner. It did that but it found something.
[00:43:30] And it keeps going back.
[00:43:31] Huh, that's interesting. Now the experimenters don't know exactly what's happening here but what they think is it's a means of innovation within the model itself as it seeks out new knowledge. If it finds knowledge that's useful for the problem, it's trying to solve then it uses it and it uses it and it uses it. That's interesting Behavior.
[00:43:50] And then finally, um, trees.
[00:43:54] There's a a wonderful book. I've been reading called The Hidden life of trees. Some of you might know this book, it's about how trees communicate with 1 another um and through chemical signals, they leverage fungus under the ground as a communication vehicle uh and they do very sophisticated things but 1 of the things that they do, of course is you know they if an insect starts attacking it'll send out chemicals.
[00:44:15] Signals to the other trees to say, okay start producing this enzyme because the, you know, the the the they don't like it. But
[00:44:22] The Oaks will only tell the Oaks.
[00:44:24] The maples will only tell the maples, so maybe Rush was right. The trees are selfish. They're protect each other, but not the rest of them.
[00:44:33] So, we live in an amazing time with a fantastic generational technology.
[00:44:39] But what I want to leave you with is if we're not leveraging it with high-end ambition to make life better for people and why do it at all?
[00:44:48] Why do it at all? Productivity is not enough. I need bigger minds and that's you, you are in the role of actually fostering this ambition and make it happen. So go do great work. Thank you.
