[00:00:04] Morning and welcome to day 3.
[00:00:07] Help. Get us a started this morning. I'd like to welcome to the stage Aaron Meyer.
[00:00:11] Aaron is the international bestselling author. A professor at insead
[00:00:15] A claim for the culture map, and her collaboration with Reed Hastings on the no rules rules.
[00:00:21] While Aaron originally hails from the US. She's lived and worked in Paris for the last 25 years and experience as a provider with a personal Insight on our work. That is guided leaders, worldwide and decoding cultural differences.
[00:00:35] And building High performing teams across borders.
[00:00:38] Today Iran will show us how to design a culture that thrives amid disruption and uncertainty.
[00:00:45] The values people over process Innovation over rigid, efficiency and context Over Control.
[00:00:52] Drawing on our latest research shall introduce unorthodox but proven principles.
[00:00:57] That help organizations move faster, and sustain high performance.
[00:01:01] Please join me in welcoming Erin Meyer.
[00:01:12] Hey.
[00:01:16] All right, thank you. Good morning. Uh, so my name is Aaron. I'm a professor at ncod, which is a business school outside of Paris and I study culture in the workplace today. We are going to be talking about organizational culture and how to develop an organizational called.
[00:01:30] Culture that Fosters Innovation, creativity and flexibility. And in order to do that, we are going to be looking at 1 of the most disruptive and or and Innovative organizational cultures of our time. And that is the culture of Netflix. Um, now I did this big research project at Netflix starting in 2016, uh, trying to figure out what other companies could learn from this experiment that they were doing. And my biggest learning from that was to recognize that the vast majority of companies today are operating with an industrial era hangover. And what I mean by that is that during the industrial era, of course, we were all obsessed with error, elimination, consistency and replicability. And if you are working, if you are managing
[00:02:15] A manufacturing plant or you are working in a safety. Critical industry. These are still your goals.
[00:02:21] But in a growing number of organizations and teams the biggest risk is no longer making some mistakes or learning losing out on a little bit of efficiency. The, the biggest risk now is that we're not thinking freshly enough or being creative or agile enough, so that the organization becomes irrelevant
[00:02:42] Um now I first came across Netflix organizational culture in 2009. Uh when they released onto the internet, this set of slides describing their organizational culture that went viral and it started like this. Um many companies have nice sounding value statements Des
[00:03:00] Blade in their Lobby such as Integrity, communication, respect, and excellence.
[00:03:06] Enron for example, whose leaders went to jail and which went bankrupt from fraud had these exact values displayed in their Lobby. So that brings me to my first point, which is that as you are considering 1 of the most important leadership topics, which is what kind of person do you hope to develop on your department or on your team or in your organization and how are you going to develop that personality as much as possible? I suggest that you avoid speaking about your organizational culture as a set of absolute.
[00:03:45] Salute positives. And what I mean by that is like the word integrity. I mean Integrity is a great word but there's no good credible option to Integrity, never have, I come across a company that said, in this organization we are all about corruption.
[00:04:00] So instead we want to reflect on, what are the tough dilemmas that are well-meaning, employees are facing on a ongoing basis and say to them, you know, in this organization on this team, when we come across this kind of delay, we turn, right? And in doing so our words form the decision-making of the manager's which then develops the the culture of the team or organization. So I thought, uh, we would since it's day 3, I thought we would have a little bit of fun and
[00:04:30] That I would give you a couple of dilemmas so I say you can see what I mean. Okay, so I'm going to put you in situation. I'm going to give you 2 options as to how you can deal with the situation and then you'll vote as to what you'll do, raising your hand. Okay, so the first dilemma starts like this, you are leading a team of 8 data analysts.
[00:04:50] Now you've got a great team, really good collaboration. It's just that you are in discussions with your own boss, about a possible organizational change and if this change happens, it's going to have a big impact on your team. They're going to get new bosses new colleagues. Some of them might even be asked to move now, you don't know if this is going to happen, it's about 40% chance. Likely to happen.
[00:05:15] And if it happens, it's going to happen in about 6 months, but you do know of course that these discussions are going on. So my question for you is are you going to share this information with your team?
[00:05:27] Now, you have 2 options. Okay? Option A no because they're likely to get disrupt disrupted distracted upset, you don't even know if it's going to happen. So, you're going to keep the information to yourself for now or option b. Yeah, you don't know if it's going to happen and they might get distracted but you want your team to feel that you're always transparent with them and you hope that that will as much as possible and you hope that that will Foster feelings of ownership and loyalty. Okay. Are you ready to vote? Okay, everyone has to vote and there's no
[00:06:00] See. Okay, let's go ahead please. Um, how many A's do we have in the room?
[00:06:07] Oh my gosh. So many A's. Okay. How about bees? How many? Oh my gosh. So many bees. Okay, we have a dilemma right. Okay, in this case, I created a dilemma for you. Where I put intention a culture of organizational, transparency into a culture of Team, stability in detention with a culture of Team stability. Now, of course, you can very well argue for 1 option or the other. My only point now is that like if you were like, oh, I want to be all about transparency.
[00:06:45] In this organization then maybe you would say to your managers. Hey, when we come back, when we come across this kind of dilemma and this organization, we go be and in doing. So our words then form the decision making which leads to the culture. Okay? Should we do 1 more
[00:07:00] Okay. All right. So this 1 starts at the same way, you are still leading a team of 8 data analysts. Now, 1, day 1 of the women on your team, this woman named Sheila, she comes into your office and she is very excited. She says, boss. I got to tell you, I've got a great idea for how to move the organization forward. She tells you, her idea. I know it's going to be expensive. It's going to take a lot of resources. I know, there's no way to Pilot it. Like either we do it or we don't do it, but I really believe in it. What do you think now?
[00:07:30] The thing is that you love Sheila's enthusiasm but you don't think it's going to work out. You think it's going to fail. So you say hey Shayla thank you for your passion but I have some concerns, you tell her your concerns. Let's think about it for a week and then we'll meet again a week later. Sheila comes back into your office, she is even more excited than she was the week before boss. I got to tell you, I've been thinking about it all week long. I've been talking to a lot of people. I've thought of some ways to mitigate the risks that you outlined for me. Here are my thoughts, you know, what do you think? Can we do it now? You love her enthusiasm, but you don't think it's going to work out. So my question for you is, are you going to let Sheila invest company money and resources in some
[00:08:15] Something that she believes in, but you, her boss thinks it's going to fail. Now you have 2 options, option. A know, you're the manager of the company, you're responsible for organizational resources. You don't think it's going to work out. So you're going to find a way to say. Politely Sheila, please get back to work.
[00:08:33] Or yes, you want your employees to feel empowered to to do things they believe in and to, you know, come up with creative ideas and you've been wrong before. So, yeah, she can get started even though, you'll tell her that you don't believe in it. Okay? So let's go ahead. I'm ready to vote? Okay, you got to vote, right? Okay, how many A's do we have in the room?
[00:08:55] Oh my gosh. So many A's. Okay, how about?
[00:09:00] Bees. How many bees do we have?
[00:09:01] Oh my gosh, so many bees you guys can't see in the front row, but it's like 5050 back here, right? Okay. Now we have a dilemma, I've created a dilemma of putting into tension, a culture of innovation into tension with a culture of error prevention. Now, of course errors are expensive. It's expensive to make mistakes so we want to avoid this as much as possible. On the other hand, we all know that innovating requires trying things out. Some things will fail eventually something will catch on and you'll get a new new idea, a new innovation. Now I'm not arguing for 1 or the other. I'm just getting you to think about the fact that
[00:09:45] If you desire to develop an organizational culture then, when you think about how to articulate it, avoid please speaking an absolute positives like this word, respect, fabulous word. It's just that I've never come across a company that said, in this organization, we are all about disrespect, right? So instead we want to think about, you know, what are these tough dilemas that are so critical for the kind of personality we're going for? And then how can we articulate those to form the behaviors and the decision-making in the organization? Okay, now before, that's Point number 1, okay? Now before we move forward, let me just reiterate that a culture of innovation, which is what we are here to talk.
[00:10:30] About today is almost always intention with a culture of error elimination. So if for example, you are leading, um the you are managing a surgery room in a hospital or if you are developing airplanes for Boeing,
[00:10:50] please don't do anything that I'm going to talk about.
[00:10:54] Um but if you're because there we don't want error, right? We are going for error elimination but if your goal is innovation, then the question is what are the dilemmas that we should be focusing on? And for that, I'm going to tell you a story about the first time that I interviewed Reed Hastings. Who is the
[00:11:15] Founder and currently chairman of Netflix and he told me a story about his first company which was an organization called Pure software. Now when Reed opened up pure software at the beginning, it was just a small group of people who are operating in an entrepreneurial fashion. And what I mean by that is there were no rules telling people what they couldn't couldn't do or processes telling people who they needed to get approval from, to spend money or make a decision. Everybody was just using their brains, to make decisions as good as they could for the good of the organization. But then, the company started to grow to hundreds of people and thousands of people, and as the company grew, some people did stupid stuff and some people took advantage of the
[00:12:00] Freedom. That was allotted to them. There was this guy named Jim. He used to fly every week from San Francisco to Los Angeles, because there was no travel policy. He started flying first class
[00:12:12] And there was this woman named Charlotte. She had a little puppy dog that didn't like to be left alone. Well, there was no rule saying she couldn't. So, she started bringing the dog to work who eventually chewed a hole in the conference room carpet. Now, these things were expensive, so Reed got frustrated, he sat down with human resources and together they created an employee handbook. And in that handbook there were all sorts of rules telling people what they couldn't couldn't couldn't do processes telling people who they needed approval from to get their work done. Now, as this employee,
[00:12:45] Handbooks started to take root. The thing is that it actually did reduce error and um increased Financial efficiency.
[00:12:55] But something else happened, which is that the most creative Maverick thinkers in the organization. Those high-performing Innovative people, they started to leave the company because often people like that want to work in a place that they can run free. And something else happened. I'm going to show you a short video of Reed. Telling you what happened? Okay, here it is. Just a couple minutes long
[00:13:23] You know, the great thing about being able to do 2 companies in my life is not making the same mistakes.
[00:13:30] So in the first company as we grew and when public we put in excuse me a lot of process because we had the idea if we could just eliminate errors, think how good we can be. And so, every time something went wrong, we put in a new process and we were so proud that we dummy proof the system.
[00:13:47] And what we didn't realize is if you dummy proof the system only dummies, want to work there.
[00:13:53] And so, then the market changed.
[00:13:58] And all of the kind of innovative crazy, thinkers had gone and everybody was still there was really good about following the rules but the market had shifted. This was the rise of java and the internet and we were unable as a company to adapt and that's when it hit for me.
[00:14:15] Short-term optimization about being efficient, is the death of long-term success and Innovation, and that we should build a company in Netflix, that tolerated, some short-term chaos and we manage right on the edge of chaos, and the value of that is keeping and stimulating, the amazing thinkers. So, when the market shifts, like DVD to streaming or licensed to expand to original content, we have within Netflix, all kinds of original thinkers, and that's the long-term optimization. But all of us in organizations want
[00:14:52] So, when Reed sold pure software and opened up Netflix, he had 2 overriding lessons.
[00:15:00] Driving his thinking, the first was Employee Freedom breeds Innovation. The second was process fixes, the company to the status quo and slows down flexibility, right? Or prevents flexibility. Okay? So with that, he wanted a Netflix to create an organization that gave employees, unprecedented amount of of freedom, but he also had some concerns. He worried that as the company grew large. If he didn't put in place these control mechanisms that we have an almost every company that the company was likely to descend into Mayhem, not operate on the edge of chaos to send into chaos. So we thought about how to deal with.
[00:15:45] With that. And he came up with what we will call the Netflix experiment which was a very simple idea, he thought. Okay, well in most companies, most of the control mechanisms that we put in place are there to deal with the average or below average employees, but usually your top performing, employees not just with the right skill, set or creativity. But also with the the right attitude and the right collaboration, usually these people, they don't need to be controlled so much. So he thought, if I could get a company that was made as much as possible up of out of just these people then I could give them a lot more freedom. But at that time Netflix had almost no money, no 1 knew who they were.
[00:16:30] How are they going to attract these kinds of people? So Netflix, I mean, Reed is a software engineer and he's aware of some research that apparently many software, uh, Engineers are aware of which is sometimes referred to as the 10x principle or sometimes referred to as the Rockstar principle. And this is just a set of research that shows that if you take people in a creative job. So not like working on an assembly line but in a knowledge job or a creative job and if you take 10 people who have the same um skills and um expertise level that the, the top performing of the 10 will deliver at least 10 to 25 times. The value of the average 1
[00:17:15] So he thought, okay, I have a choice, I could hire a hundred people and pay them an average amount or I could hire maybe just 10 people and pay them. If necessary up to 10 times, what I would pay an average employee. So he decided that's what he was going to do. He was going to hire a lot less people and pay them a lot more and in doing so he would increase what we will call Talent density. Right? Right skills. Right attitude. Right collaboration. But a lot less people and he also thought, okay, I'll do 1 more thing. I'll also try to develop a culture where people are giving 1, another a lot of really open feedback. And if people are speaking 1 with 1 another really helping 1
[00:18:00] Another out with actionable candid feedback in that case that will push performance up further in the organization and the team will become Co accountable to 1 another. So if Jim tries to fly first class, someone else say, hey Jim, I don't think that's a good use of company money. And he thought if I were able to do those 2 things then I could have this uh, this lack. I could let go of these control mechanisms and get this culture of Freedom going. Okay. That's the experiment. Let's go through each of these 1 at a time. Are you ready for your third dilemma?
[00:18:35] Yeah. Okay this is the really provocative 1. I have no idea what's going to happen. I'm a little bit nervous. Okay, this 1 starts out the same way.
[00:18:45] Way you are still leading a team of 8 data analysts now. Um, when you started this team a year ago your goal was to create a high-performing team. So you did 3 things. The first is that you decided you were going to hire a lot less people and pay them a lot more money in order to attract the best. The second is that you left jobs, open, not just for weeks, but for months, waiting for the right people to walk through the door. The third thing that you did is once you found those people, you threw yourself into giving them feedback and coaching and now 1 year in 7 of your 8, employees are amazing. These people, they are the best with the money you have.
[00:19:30] They are the best and then there's Fritz.
[00:19:33] Now the thing about Fritz is that he's not a poor performer, if you were a poor poorer, you already would have found a way to get rid of him. He's just kind of
[00:19:43] he's sort of adequate.
[00:19:45] Its kind of mediocre.
[00:19:48] Now, um, on the 1 hand Fritz is a nice guy.
[00:19:54] Uh, and he seems to be doing his best.
[00:19:57] On the other hand it's now become clear to you that Fritz is never going to turn in to the high performer that you hoped he would when you hired him. So my question for you is are you going to keep Fritz on your team or get rid of him? Now, please note there is nowhere else in the organization that you can
[00:20:15] Off and off to which I know you were thinking about.
[00:20:19] All right, so here we have 2 options.
[00:20:22] option, A you
[00:20:23] Need. You know what? Um, Fritz is a nice enough guy. He gets some work done. The others are 7 are are amazing. He can stay.
[00:20:31] Okay, or B know he's going to have to go. He's you're trying for high performing organization. Fritz is never going to be a high performer. He's taking up a lot of your time and a lot of your energy. So sorry, Fritz. This is it okay? Ready.
[00:20:47] How many of you vote for a Fritz can stay. Oh my gosh. So many A's.
[00:20:52] How about B is, how many of you vote for bees? Oh my gosh, so many bees. You guys are ruthless ruthless.
[00:21:00] Okay. Now, let me tell you that when Reed first opened up Netflix, he agreed with the A's. So, on the 1 hand, he wanted to create a high-performing team that was his goal, but on the other hand, he believed that a good organizational culture was like a family, a family, which valued things like loyalty, long-term stability and comfort, okay? For its can stay in that kind of organization. So um, Netflix opened in 1997 and by 2001 the company had grown to 120 people. So the organization was doing okay, the atmosphere around the office was fine. Then in 2001 there,
[00:21:45] Was a financial crisis in the fall and Reed found out. He was going to have to close the company.
[00:21:51] Or he would have to lay off 1/3 of his Workforce. He felt he didn't have a choice. So he sat down with human resources and together, they went through every name on the list. Now, first of all, anybody who was a little bit obnoxious or hard to get along with those people, clearly, they were going to have to go. But he soon saw that also all of the fritzes, those hard-working kind people who weren't managing to do great work, they were going to have to go also. Now that day of the layoffs came that was a horrible day, people screamed and cried and slammed doors. That was just as bad as anyone could have imagined. But within about a 3-month time, period,
[00:22:30] the most surprising thing happened, which is that Reed realized that um, the atmosphere around the office had improved dramatically
[00:22:43] And the employees were learning from 1 another. They were growing with 1 another and the performance was spiraling upwards now. Reed didn't know why this had happened, but he spent a lot of time talking to the various employees about it and he finally came to the conclusion for that. Your top performing, employees are really great. Workplace is not about like having a sushi lunch or a fancy window office. For these people a great work.
[00:23:15] Place is about being surrounded by stunning colleagues about being surrounded by the best. Now, let me tell you that Reed is not the first person to and if I in case I didn't say it. They were challenging 1, another learning from 1 another growing together, right? Okay. Now,
[00:23:38] Let me for tell you. That Reed is not the first person to determine that performance is contagious. There's actually a lot of, uh, research looking at this. I have a colleague named William phelp Phelps, a professor at another business school and he con conducted a study where he invited 4 managers into his lab, Sorry 4 college students.
[00:24:00] Into his lab at a time, he gave them, a 45-minute tasks and he rewarded them financially based on how well they performed now. Unbeknownst to them on 50% of the teams there was an interloper who was an actor named Nick and Nick had been hired to act just like your uh, regular college student, but to do some things that were undesirable. Sometimes he would act bored, he would put his feet up on the desk and he would text his girlfriend.
[00:24:30] Sometimes he would act pessimistic he would complain and say oh this is never going to work out. Sometimes he would act obnoxious, he would say things like, have you ever attended a business school class before
[00:24:44] now, what
[00:24:45] Professor Phelps showed on study after study, was that those teams that had
[00:24:51] That had Nick on them performed at a nearly 50% worse rate, even when the other 3 college students were top of their class and linked to that was the fact that Nick's per, uh, Behavior would quickly start to bleed all around the group. So when he was behaving like a pessimist quickly, the other group members would start saying, oh my gosh, this is never going to work out when he was acting bored. People would start pulling out their phones and texting their girlfriends and when he acted obnoxious, they would start to be kind of abrasive and obnoxious also.
[00:25:30] so not just to him but to 1 another
[00:25:34] So, I know when you were thinking about what to do with Fritz that most of you were thinking, okay? An individual performance problem is an individual problem. That's an issue between Fritz and me Fritz's manager, but we actually know from a lot of research that an individual performance. Problem is almost never an individual problem. And individual performance problem is a systemic problem that impacts the entire team. Sometimes even the entire organization. And I know, of course, you know, it too, that high performers with the right skills, attitude and collaboration can pull up a team culture.
[00:26:15] But unfortunately, what Professor Phelps found is that the best predictor of how a team performs is not what the best performer is like or even what the average performer is like. But that most often, it comes down to what the worst team member is like, or in other words, poor performance is, especially contagious.
[00:26:39] Now, how you choose to do with any possible, fritzes that you may have in your organization? It's not many, I'm sure. Uh, I leave this up to you but read became absolutely laser focused on figuring out what he could do to keep these high levels of talent density.
[00:27:00] In the organization, he refers to this as his Damascus Road experience the moment in time that changed the way that he thought about everything in business and no matter how you feel about this provocative model, I think we probably all can agree that if this had not happened to read that, you would not be watching Netflix tonight. Something interesting to think about, okay? So, uh, Reed decided that he was going to do 3 things. The first that he think he decided to do was that he was going to change the analogy of the organization. He started saying, you know what, here we are not a family.
[00:27:39] In this organization, we are an Olympic team and on an Olympic team.
[00:27:45] The manager's job is number 1, the coach's job to make sure that the right person is always in the right spot skills. Attitude collaboration, right skills for the right spot. Second of all, throw yourself in to giving coaching and feedback, but it's also that coach's job to always, make sure that she's keeping an eye on every spot to make sure that she always has the right person in that seat. She knows it and the team knows that that's the deal. Okay, that's the first thing. He said he was going to do decide, he was going to do the second 1 that he decided was. You know what?
[00:28:22] like in software engineering apparently, as you know, uh, many of the really brilliant people might not
[00:28:30] Be that easy to get along with. So he started saying, you know what here? No, brilliant jerks.
[00:28:37] The cost to teamwork is just too high. All the Nicks, they got to go.
[00:28:45] And the third thing that he did. Now, this 1 is the most uh, provocative. I don't know how you'll feel about it but I do think it's an interesting exercise. You can do it tonight, you can go out for a walk and you can ask yourself a question like if
[00:28:59] Stanley on your team, came into your office and he said to you boss, I got to tell you, I'm leaving the company, how would you feel? Would you be devastated? Would you say, oh no, Stanley, don't leave me, would you?
[00:29:15] Fight to keep Stanley in that position if so, you know, that Stanley's the right person for that spot. Would you be relieved?
[00:29:24] Would you think oh good? Now I can spend my time where I want to on my high performers.
[00:29:32] Feel excited.
[00:29:34] Thinking about who you quit getting that job. Now, if you would feel either relieved or excited, when 1 of your employees tells you that they're leaving the company. I think it's time to ask yourself another question, which is have you given that person the coaching and feedback that they need to succeed? And if you haven't done it, oh my gosh. You better. Go do it right now. But if you have given it and you have
[00:30:00] Have been giving it. Then that's probably a sign that something needs to change. I'll leave that up to you, but let's imagine. Now let's imagine that you managed to do these 4 things, so you managed to use the 10x principle. Then you used the Olympic team analogy, not a family and then you said no brilliant jerks and then just to polish it all off you did the keeper test okay. If you were able to do these things, you would really increase Talent density in your organization and now you could give your employees a lot more freedom.
[00:30:41] It's time for our fourth dilemma. Are you ready for this 1?
[00:30:45] Okay, now uh this 1 is uh not provocative at all. The question with this 1 is whether you will tell the truth.
[00:30:55] now, um,
[00:30:56] This 1 starts the same way so you are still leading a team of 8, marketing of, of you're still leading a team of of 8 data analysts. Oh sorry, I made a mistake. You're not leading the team. You are 1 of the data analysts, okay?
[00:31:11] And 1 day you go to a meeting with a client and your colleague. Now, your colleague is um, a little bit senior to the you and the organization, but he's not your boss and you have a nice relationship with him but you're not close to him. Now during the meeting, he does some things that
[00:31:30] That you wish he wouldn't. The first thing that he does is he talks too loudly too loudly and with too much energy and you can see your clients not responding well to that. You also see that he doesn't look at your client while she's talking. It's kind of looking at his paper or you, you think it looks like he's not listening to her. You wish he wouldn't do that. Now the meeting is over my question for you is, are you going to give this feedback to your colleague? Now, you have 3 options. So option A. Yeah, I mean, I think you think it's actionable if he chooses to listen to it so if he could do something about it. So if you give him the feedback and he acts,
[00:32:15] On it, it'll help him, it'll help the team the client the organization. So yeah, I'm going to give the feedback that's option. Ah, okay option b, maybe maybe I will give the feedback if
[00:32:28] The right opportunity. Arises
[00:32:30] Or see I think in this situation honestly, I probably would not give the feedback. Okay, you're all ready. All right. How many A's do we have? I will give. Okay. Now just keep your hands up for a moment everybody. Okay. Can you guys in the front? Can you just look around and see how many A's they are? Okay. Like on some of them are putting their hands down but Mo most of you okay let's see. Thank you very much. We'll come back to that. How about bees? How many bees do we have? Okay, we still have we still have some bees good? Okay. Lot lot. Less but some bees how about some C's
[00:33:00] How many seats do we have?
[00:33:01] Let's see, I see 1 over there. 2, 3, 4 5, 6 7, 8 9. Okay, 9 C's. Now I got to tell you. I always get A's. In fact, I used to have only A and B. There was no C and I would get sometimes 100% A's. Once I did it with 3,000 people, I got 200. I, sorry, I got 2,000 9. Well I got I got all A's except for a few. Okay.
[00:33:34] Um my and I was really surprised at the beginning, I would start asking people, but what about your colleagues, know your colleagues? Would they give the feedback?
[00:33:46] Oh no.
[00:33:47] They wouldn't give the feedback. In fact, I never get any feedback at all.
[00:33:52] And I thought, well, isn't that fascinating? That only the people who come to my sessions? Give the feedback.
[00:34:01] All right. Now, of course, when it comes, okay? Now, of course, when it comes to feedback, we actually have a dilemma in our brain, The Dilemma is between the frontal cortex, which is the most, um, logical part of your brain and the amygdala, the most primitive part of your brain. The frontal cortex, loves feedback. If it's clear and actionable, right? The frontal cortex feels please, give me feedback that's actionable and we'll help.
[00:34:30] Me. And then I will give you actionable, clear feedback, and we will all do better. Let's give the feedback the issue when it comes to feedback, is the amygdala. The amygdala, is very focused on finding safety in numbers, and if you tell me something that you feel that I'm doing is undesirable, it's likely to set off an alarm in my brain and that alarm is screaming. Oh my gosh. I'm going to get kicked out of the tribe and when that alarm goes off, it throws your body into fight or flight and floods your body with stress hormones, like adrenaline and cortisol. And this is what it looks like.
[00:35:08] It's not true. What you've told me it's not true, I'm not the problem, you're the problem, right? That's
[00:35:15] Fight right? Or thank you so much.
[00:35:19] Thank you so much for having given me that feedback. I'm I'm really going to think about that. And then I try to never speak to you again.
[00:35:28] Okay. Now we all know about the amygdala, right?
[00:35:34] Come on like that. I mean, like honestly,
[00:35:37] Why would I, why would I give you the feedback risk getting you angry with me or not wanting to work with me? I mean, I'll let your boss deal with that. Now, that being said, we also know from a lot of research that the number 1, way to up performance on your team Beyond getting the right people. In each spot is to get
[00:36:00] Culture going where people give clear actionable feedback, kind feedback to 1 another. So I just give you a few ideas of some things that you could do to keep your the amygdala calm and get this culture going. The first 1, I mean very simple, just teach your employees to give feedback, right? Don't give feedback because you're angry or frustrated or Fed Up only when you aim to assist it's actionable, when you receive the feedback, you appreciate it. You say thank you but that doesn't mean you need to act on it.
[00:36:33] The second thing is this is the 1 you can do right away, you could do it tonight, put feedback on. Oh sorry, put feedback on the agenda. So for example,
[00:36:45] You could tell your employees tonight, you could send them an email and you could say hey next week please set up a meeting with each of the other people on the team 1-on-1 and you'll give them 1 piece of feedback. 1 thing. I think you're doing well and 1 thing, I think you could do to up your performance and then you do the same thing for me and then after we all meet we'll come back together as a team and we'll all report back, 1 thing that I really learned from that feedback that I'm going to be working on, or you could do it in a team meeting, bring people together face to face and send them off for 5 minutes of speed feedback and then come back and report. Back for example,
[00:37:24] They are doing 1. Oh, and let me ask um, the bees. Would you give
[00:37:30] The feedback if it were put on the agenda like that.
[00:37:34] You would write okay. The opportunity has arisen and I think even those 9 C's probably would give the feedback if they had a clear opportunity, a moment to do it like that, okay? Now they are doing 1 thing at Netflix that I thought was absolutely crazy. Was something that they call 360 degree live feedback dinners and basically the deal is that once a year, you go out with your team and over at dinner. Uh we give 1 another feedback in front of the group so like maybe we start the team, the team dinner, he gives you some feedback, something he thinks you're doing well, something he thinks you can do to up your performance and then the next woman
[00:38:15] Gives you some feedback in the next guy and then we move on to the next person. I thought that was crazy. Like why do you have to drag my weaknesses through the team? Can't you tell me that in private? But I saw that, if you have the right level of maturity and you have no brilliant jerks that actually that feedback sessions can be very useful. I have this quote from 1 person who said getting publicly ripped apart sounds like torture each time, I go to a live 360, I'm n nervous, but after you get started, you see, it'll be fine. Because everyone is watching. People are careful to be generous and supportive with the single intention of helping you succeed. No 1 to embarrass
[00:39:00] You or attack you, everyone gets a lot of tough advice, you're not singled out when your turn comes, it might be difficult to hear what people have to say, but this is 1 of the greatest developmental Gifts of your life. Okay? Now, let's imagine that you did.
[00:39:18] Do both of these things.
[00:39:20] That you took the 4 steps, we talked about to get rid of the Knicks and Fritz's in your organization and to increase Talent density that you got the these uh the this feedback going, this candid feedback culture going. Now, you would find that you could really let go of a lot of the controls that you have on your team and organization and get that kind of culture of near.
[00:39:45] Chaos that leads to Innovation going now. Um,
[00:39:49] here, I've provided a list of
[00:39:55] Many of the control mechanisms that. Most companies have that you won't find at Netflix. Now, as you look at them they fall into 3 different categories. So the first is okay policies. Like at Netflix, the vacation policy is take some vacation.
[00:40:14] The expense policy is spend money in the company's best interest. Now if you're thinking to yourself, okay, that's crazy. I'm not going to do any of those things. Okay. That's okay. These are not the important ones. These are just symbols
[00:40:30] Symbols of Freedom that say, Hey employees, I trust you to behave like adults and in doing so they are likely to behave more like adults but they're not the important ones, okay? Then
[00:40:41] At Netflix, there are no kpis. There are no management by objective. Now, you might not think of these as control mechanisms, but they are, these are a way to let your employees, run a little bit. A little bit free, but still keep their hands firmly. Your hand firmly on their shoulder to make sure that they are Marching In the right direction. But maybe if you had really good employees,
[00:41:07] Me and a culture of kandare going too. Maybe you wouldn't need these things. Maybe you could let your employees run.
[00:41:15] 1 more free.
[00:41:16] Now, if you're thinking to yourself, there is no way I'm going to get rid of my kpis.
[00:41:22] That's okay. These are not the important ones. You can keep them. Um, the important ones are these, this middle section. Uh, and I of an, I'd like to go back. Now to this idea of the decision-making controls that we have in the vast majority of companies. Do you remember? Sheila
[00:41:43] So, Sheila, of course, I asked you early on, you know, is, uh, will you let Sheila invest money in something that you believe in and she didn't and half of you said, yes, and half of you said, no, but I didn't tell you if Sheila was an amazing employee, I didn't tell you that. Sheila has shook
[00:42:00] Showing you time and time again that she is the right person for that spot. Maybe if I told you that a lot more of you would have, said you know what, I'm ready to let Sheila make decisions even if I don't know if it's correct or not. If it's going to work out or not, um, at Netflix, they say 2 things. The first is don't seek to be, please, your boss seek to do what's best for the company and the second is lead with context, not control.
[00:42:29] And I'm going to end with an image here. So in the vast majority of companies, the decision making model is like a pyramid. So of course, the chairman is at the top of the pyramid, the lower level employees at the
[00:42:45] The bottom, the lower level employees can make small unimportant decisions, but for anything expensive or important, the decision has to be pushed up the pyramid, at least, partially for approval. We all know the pyramid in a growing number of organizations and teams today. The decision-making pyramid is now being gradually replaced by the decision-making tree and with the decision-making tree, the chairman is no longer the chief decision-making officer. He's down there in the dirt. Not saying you can do this but you can't do this. But instead setting the context for decision-making throughout the organization. This is our North Star. This is the direction that we are running.
[00:43:30] Here are the the dilemmas that will form the culture that will lead to the decision-making throughout the organization.
[00:43:40] Then you've got those high-level managers under the chairman, maybe some of you in the room and they're at those big branches, setting more context for their departments and organizations. And then you have of course those smaller leaves or branches at the end where you may have the lower level managers, who are sometimes at Netflix. Netflix making multi-million dollar decisions, not saying boss, can I or can't? I. But instead thinking about all of the context that's been set for them by the tree in order to make as good decisions as they can, for the good of the company? I
[00:44:15] I'm going to just wrap up with a, a last quote from Reed. Reed said
[00:44:20] As we gave oh sorry, important point. I forgot.
[00:44:25] If you manage to get a tree going in your organization, it has 3 big advantages. The first is Young creative, top talent coming out onto the market today. They want to work for trees, not for pyramids.
[00:44:45] So if you manage to get a tree going, you're going to attract that top talent. And once they work for you they're never going to want to work anywhere else.
[00:44:55] The second is that a tree can grow more quickly than a
[00:45:00] Pyramid. If the roots desire because there's no decision-making bottleneck in the model and the third important for today is that a tree is more flexible than a pyramid, is more agile. So it can grow off in different directions of something. Unexpected arrives in the environment. In a way that a pyramid is much slower to adapt.
[00:45:25] Here's the quote from Reed to end. As we gave employees more control over their lives and jobs it began to dawn on me. Freedom is not the opposite of accountability, as I had previously considered instead, it is a path towards it. If you treat employees.
[00:45:45] Like adults, they will act like adults. If you give employees control over a big decisions, they will become increasingly responsible and conscientious. In other words, give freedom to get responsibility.
[00:46:01] Now, let me just wrap up by saying that I know that your organizations are not Netflix and probably you would not want to be Netflix. Uh, it's a little too crazy, uh, but I do hope that these will have G things will have given you a few ideas of some things that you could try in your in your organization or on your team or even in the company in order to get a little bit more freedom and a little bit more creativity and Innovation going thank you very much. I really enjoyed working with you. Thank you for playing all of my games.
[00:46:30] My name is you're a great pleasure. Thank you.