[00:00:04] Thank you so much for joining our session. Today, we're going to be talking about the blueprint for AI success in energy. My name is Nick juul, I'm part of the solution, engineering team at data IQ. Very pleased to be welcomed on stage with Ahmed, Hussein Global Innovation lead from SLB. We're going to be having a little bit of a fireside chat throughout the session. If you have any questions, please feel free to come up to us at the end of the session, we'd be more than happy to talk to you after the event. So to begin with, I'm going to start with just a couple of slides. A little bit of positioning about what we actually mean by AI success and you know, first of all, let's acknowledge the current situation and I'm going to take some notes from some major re
[00:00:45] Recent reports from McKenzie, an Accenture that have come out in recent months. AI is everywhere within the Enterprise, whether it's Finance whether its supply chain, whether it's HR, whether it's marketing, whether its energy, every process, every decision, every team, every Insight is now influenced by Ai and it shows up as co-pilots as agents as a assistance. Sometimes as all 3 in the same Zoom meeting the companies, you know that we all work with that, we see every day, the adoption is now reaching 100%. So, the question I think is no longer whether we're all using AI, the question is really whether it's all working.
[00:01:26] And I'll dive into some of those research papers to tell you a little more.
[00:01:30] The sad truth is that most AI still isn't delivering pilot programs. A stalling costs are climbing, AI spend is growing but the ROI stays pretty fuzzy. Leadership is not getting clear answers on where that money is going.
[00:01:48] Kinsey study found that only 6% of companies are actually capturing real value. So while the rest of the world might be debating, how to start with their agentic, AI programs that 6% is already automated. And we're going to see that Gap compounding every single quarter.
[00:02:07] So let's ask the question. What's holding us back? Is it technological? Is it organizational? Or is it something else?
[00:02:14] at data, I
[00:02:15] Do we've identified this as the AI success divide. You've got organizations getting results from AI on 1 side. Everybody else on the other.
[00:02:25] So you may have the stack, you may have the data, you may have the apps, you may have the AI Services. The Gap actually isn't technology. Sometimes you don't need more vendors for AI success. You actually need differentiation.
[00:02:41] Most Enterprise AI today, honestly, to be called commodity AI. It's the same models, it's the same agents. It's the same results as your competitors.
[00:02:52] So commodity AI really doesn't compound. It doesn't get better just because you bought it the winners over to the fast.
[00:03:00] Side of the Gap. A building AI that really encodes their specific, corporate DNA into Ai and AI success takes these 3 things.
[00:03:11] First of all, people not talking about headcount really talking about expertise that VP that maybe knows which supplier to trust the analysts that could see the signal through the noise that judgment becomes your most valuable asset.
[00:03:26] How do you encode that knowledge so that it scales across the organization.
[00:03:32] Secondly, we talk about orchestration, big word. Differentiate differentiated AI isn't about a single model, it's not about a single data platform, it's not about a single result. It's the wiring
[00:03:45] Between your data, your business rules, and your subject matter experts.
[00:03:49] How do we build a system that thinks the way that your experts do?
[00:03:55] And finally governance the idea that as the stakes go up trusts also needs to go up. It's not enough for the AI to be running. It also has to run correctly. How do you maintain control as these systems start to scale?
[00:04:10] So put simply people plus orchestration, plus governance when they connect you have the recipe for AI success.
[00:04:19] So, I'd like to introduce Amit Hussein. Tell us a little bit more about yourself and we'll start the fireside chat.
[00:04:25] Thank you, Nick, and thank you, everyone, in the meet, in, in the room. My name is Ahmed. I'm the global innovator.
[00:04:30] Manager for SLP specialized on Drilling Technologies and I'm very excited to be with you today to talk about how we are actually working closely with our partners data IQ to apply AI success and energy industry. Fantastic, thanks zachman. So first of all, I'm going to break down some questions. Really along those pillars of AI success people, orchestration and governance. You'll hear it many times today. So at this point, Ahmed you've trained what thousands of people across the globe, maybe from Engineers through to data, scientists through to Executives using the platform with data IQ, which is absolutely massive. How did you find that? Upskilling process for maybe non-technical folks. How did it work? Give us a few examples.
[00:05:15] Good point. So for people who doesn't know SLP very well, we are like let's say the data IQ or the Apple and Samsung for the uh oil and gas Industries. So we we are a service provider where a technology company providing services and Technologies for oil operators right now how it works. We not only train our people on data IQ but also we have something we're going to talk about it later. What we call it, an AI Academy, where we also teach our operators, and embed our operators with what? We call it the AI ready kind of Next Generation and we're going to talk about it shortly, but why that makes difference right? Today. SLP considered as an AI first company, right? Where technology.
[00:06:00] Company. And we want people to take AI as AI approach as an AI first. And if we just think about only training a small subset of people, we're 100,000 employees worldwide operating in almost 195, countries worldwide. So if we thought about just looking at
[00:06:17] training, 10% of the population who are the people that like on the field or looking at
[00:06:24] certain data management group.
[00:06:26] That type of individuals will be focused on a certain tasks, but then missing the bigger picture, which is in lining, AI success with the company, major success, right? So to achieve success, internally to achieve success turn externally, you need to look at how you up.
[00:06:45] Tell your individuals not only from technical level, but also at executive levels to be able to First speak the same language and be able to understand the value that Ai and energy is going to bring not only from a domain perspective, but also at executive decisions driven 11 fantastic. And, you know, we see a lot at the Gartner conference and at other events around the world, there is this rapid evolution of AI in the market right now. Lots of things are changing very fast.
[00:07:13] From a people perspective, lots of teams, I think are feeling quite uncertain. There's a little bit of fear and dread somewhere within the organization about how they adopt that change. Now you mentioned the academy
[00:07:24] Are there other ways that SLB that you handle that internally? Absolutely so I like at the beginning of the
[00:07:30] Opening speech. Uh a very good statement was mentioned if you don't lead AI today AI will lead you in the future, right? And we are actually implementing the same strategy in SLP.
[00:07:41] so, we are not looking at AI as a tool that going to
[00:07:45] Change people or exchange people over individuals. So we're not going to run with a 50,000 employees because of AI. We're going to still run with that at 100,000 employees but then
[00:07:54] the message that we're putting into our individuals that like,
[00:07:58] if you don't as an SME or an executive use AI, now,
[00:08:03] Someone who's capable enough to do? The same job will equipped with AI will be able to replace you in the future, right? Because today, like talking about myself as a drilling engineer 20 years ago or 15
[00:08:15] Years ago, we were talking about digitalization. Digitalization was the word 2015 years ago, and then we were trying to explain to our operators. Look using just handwritten, or Excel or basic digital tools. Is not going to make you the drilling engineer of the future, right? And that was the trick out to join oil and gas industry, right? So and then now we see that our not only drilling engineer subservice engineers, and all of the other people are digitally say this, they are using digital Technologies but now the message is that digital is not only enough
[00:08:47] now, you need to start thinking about how I embed AI in my day-to-day workflows, as
[00:08:53] An SME as a data scientist as an internal company. Uh, I would say support team from
[00:09:00] It to finance to supply chain into all the way to Executives. And and, and HR to make sure that
[00:09:08] I until versus thinking about like AI is going to replace me, right? And this is how we believe that AI is going to change the way we are working by making sure that people understand that AI is going to
[00:09:23] Help them to until then replace them in the future, right? So this is this is why we don't have that fear in the SLP. And this is how we are messaging this to our customers. That look your SMS need to be equipped with tools that tailored for the domain, which is energy, which we're going to talk about it shortly, but then don't think about domain only is going to help to up.
[00:09:45] Tell your people or maintain and retain your talent in the future. So it would be safe to say then that for SLB AI is an augmenter to the process rather than a replacer. Absolutely, right? So, and this is why, for example today and later, we're going to maybe touch base on it.
[00:10:00] We launched something called a domain data scientist. Right? So, we don't have a data scientist team that working alone, but we have something called domain data scientists, which is think about a drilling engineer production engineer,
[00:10:14] uh geologists being in the field for 10 or 15 years or working with the customers for 1015 years, these people get into a program
[00:10:23] Where they spend like, 1 year learning about data scientists, they come back.
[00:10:28] They become a domain data scientist.
[00:10:30] Which they work together with the dumi and with the customers to help on solving customer, most challenging problems that they used to spend days and years and, and trying to fix it with an AI augmented workflows, that changed the way that they are working today. Fantastic. All right, well, let's move over and let's spend a couple of minutes talking about actual business value. So SLB basically sits on a gold. Mine of historical data. So you've got well, reports you've got surveys, you've got studies, you've got all the usual Telemetry coming from all of these different systems.
[00:11:02] I would say that much of it would be trapped in maybe what we would call dark data, so maybe inside PDFs or inside proprietary formats, that makes it difficult to access.
[00:11:11] What was the specific maybe? Aha moment, where you realize that
[00:11:15] Generative and maybe agentic AI could tap into those resources for value. Good point. So as I think anyone in the room here, they deal with tons of data and dark data here. We're talking about beta Parts, not even terabytes of data. That challenge was always how I can let. My AI model be able to access this information. My reports are like handwritten. My data is written in different format. How I will understand the context of subsurface related data, to drilling related data, to the reservoir related data now,
[00:11:45] having an
[00:11:47] data platform is the key things, right? So starting with the data platform and uh and this is what we launched in SLP a couple years ago what what we call it Lumi data and AI platform is the starting point, right? Because just
[00:12:00] Ing AI models into any type of random data, it will help you to understand the subset. But it will not help you to create a correlation between different type of data models.
[00:12:08] So having a kind of a unified data. Platform is a key things when you deal with a multi-disciplinary type of workflows. Now, on top of the data, you just, you cannot just
[00:12:18] Jump in and try to run AI models without having a right orchestration.
[00:12:23] So having the right data pipelines, working with data IQ, help us to create that established data pipeline, not only for slps, but also, for extended customers.
[00:12:31] To make sure that AI models will be able to go and read the right data in the right context. Now,
[00:12:38] With the evolution of uh, generative models and, and all of the llms that has came into the last couple of years.
[00:12:45] We realize that.
[00:12:46] in the past, when you try to engage with a customer to work with them on a certain data set, you need to make sure that the data is OCR in the right format in the right template
[00:12:55] But the beauty with generative Ai and that's how we changed the way that customers looking at their data analytics, and and being able to remove dashboards as they mentioned in the, in the opening speech to be a completely relying on a chat interface right by having abilities to connect with different llm models. Using the data IQ llm. Mesh it enable us to look at different models, evaluate different workflows that has different capabilities to read different type of data sets. Connected with the right data pipeline which what we build jointly with data IQ.
[00:13:30] Fantastic. And I always like to talk about, actually the impact, or the value itself, and maybe there are 4 or 5 pillars to measuring value. Maybe you're making money, maybe you're saving money. Maybe you're automating, maybe you're upskilling. Um, for SLB, is it about reducing non-productive time for your for your work force. Actually, you know, squeezing every bit of efficiency out of them is it capturing tribal Knowledge from veteran engineers in the field? Where would you see the value being applied? Absolutely. So when we look at the entire value chain and and life, cycle of any,
[00:14:02] Uh, oil field or gas Fields, it starts with different stages which what we call it, first of all, data acquisition or seismic acquisition. All the way to doing the geology or subsurface characterization.
[00:14:15] During the world's produce and then go to PNA. Now, in each task sometimes,
[00:14:20] Process could take months years because it require a huge amount of repetitive tasks. Huge amount of
[00:14:28] processing power rely on human to do a lot of manual tasks, to make sure that
[00:14:34] The understanding of the reservoir is there, the ability to understand the oil content or, or gas content in there to drill the right wells in the right direction or with a safely or to produce and monitor the production Assets in place. So, when we start implementing AI workflows, on this end-to-end cycle of, uh, I would say oil oil and gas or enp workflows.
[00:14:57] The value consists in multiple stages.
[00:15:00] First of all, when we talk about appraisal when she, which is mainly looking at the seismic acquisition from the time, you should the seismic until you get the results sometimes, I mean, for typical customers will take almost 2 to 3 years, to be able to understand the oil and gas volumes to say. Okay, this is where I will drill. Now, with AI in place, we automated most of these workflows. Now, the operator, who are spending Millions on licensing, these type of assets they can get answers in months, then years, that's when thing. Now, when it goes to drilling, it's where most of the capex goes there and imagining, you have a platform in the middle of the sea, or I'm in the middle of the deserts drilling, with a coat of of a running course of almost 300,000 up to
[00:15:45] 1 million per day.
[00:15:47] Having what we call it non-productive time or invisible loss, time cost the company a lot.
[00:15:52] First of all, when we start implementing Advanced analytics with AI, we help customers to make sure that when they drill these Wells, they drill these Wells safely and running and drilling. These Wells safely is very critical to make sure that they reach to the Target, Reservoir in the right time and help them to make sure that when they drill the well when they design the world going back, 20 years ago, as we say, don't rely only in physics, you need to implement it with digital. And now what we are saying, augment AI physics together to make sure that you have the best optimum scenarios for your designs, or for your production. So making sure that the customers is relying on AI models to help them.
[00:16:30] To design the worlds to achieve the maximum Reservoir content is another thing. Now, when it come to production,
[00:16:36] this is where the money comes to the operators, right? So they need to make sure that their production is in, in, in a way or another. That is
[00:16:44] Unstoppable in case. If there is any changes in
[00:16:49] The, uh, downhole conditions or in, in case of any failure happen could happen to the equipment on Surface.
[00:16:55] When we talk about production in particular, we have almost 500 to 900 different type of sensors reading data, almost in every single second for each well pad,
[00:17:05] And this data, as you said, it was a dark data. Nobody used to be able to analyze and capture all of this information. And it was always
[00:17:13] we rely on our senior people to,
[00:17:15] What's the right thing to do? When the wall is is is shut down now.
[00:17:18] With AI you have predictive models that can help you to understand whether you will have a failure in your downhole equipment, or your surface parameters, which could impact your productivity, which is the revenue. Let's call it for the operator. So there are different ways to look at how we are capturing value to customers in terms of understanding the uh Reservoir characterization, help them to drill faster or safer and make sure that their production is not interpreted fantastic. So without going into too many of the technical drilling details, let's touch on architecture for a moment. So the last 6 months have been absolutely crazy, we've seen the founder and developer of Linux going over the moon with things like open claw. Everyone feels like
[00:18:00] Their Vibe coding this that and the other at the moment with Claude code and other environments, SLB have chosen to work with a low code and a no code platform in order to deliver many of these capabilities. What would you say is the overriding Strategic approach here? Where, why was that decision made to go down this route? Good point. So, when we, you remember when we talked about the data orchestration, and the data platform right now, as you said, like there are many companies, they think. Okay, let's have a team work on 1 problem, to build an agent or to build 1 ml model. Look at 1 type of data,
[00:18:31] they do a great success, right? But then when you say, okay, let's scale it, let's connect it to the other team, what they are doing in the other room. Or let's connect it to a third room or fourth room or different business models. You will realize that this is where AI fails because
[00:18:45] Was a from the day when they created a dependency on only.
[00:18:49] 1 Paradigm, or doing it in the hard way to make sure that like the model is 100% accurate. But then, when you have the right data foundation with the right orchestration layer, you can have multiple team members working with each other. And this is where working with data. IQ helped us, not only us help our customers as well to make sure that no matter how many different team members are working with with with with the different data sets. As long as you have the right data orchestration layer and the data platform, these team members work will be connected in in the orchestration layer at the end of the day. That's a really important point. So really what you're saying is with orchestration comes collaboration, those 2 things are inseparable at that point. Absolutely.
[00:19:30] Interesting talk about flexibility to me. So your, your pipelines, your data pipelines today, rely on external models. So, let's say you're using llms, maybe you're connecting to open AI, we know there is sort of a state of War at the moment between all of these different model providers. Tomorrow, you might choose anthropic or Google for your models. You might go to an open model or an on-prem hosted model with, uh, the partners that are in the the exhibition stand. Um, how is data IQ helped you sort of architect that Pipeline and stay flexible as a result. This is great question. So if you think about it from day 1 we we took that decision is that we're not going to rely on 1 model or 1 way of building data pipelines, right? And that's why we created our models that to be our sorry our our our uh,
[00:20:15] Solutions to be flexible in a way that using llm mesh that what we have from data IQ that have the capability to connect to any models. But right nslp data, security is a key things and this is going to the governance later. But the so when we deal with customers, we make sure that the data and the models is used in a very special way which mean, that, like data doesn't actually go to the models and we have that we have no dependency on 1 single model, right? We actually work with customers that they bring their own llms. We work with customers that say, look, I have my own on-prem llms or we have our own SLP specialized llms. And then at the end of the day, the same solution the same, uh, agentic workflows can fit with any of these models using the technology program.
[00:21:00] Provided by dataq perfect. So no, vendor lock-in know the opportunity to try new models as they come out. Excellent. We actually do this every single day.
[00:21:07] Fantastic. So you've mentioned it a couple of times. Let's let's take up that third pillar now, so we've covered the people, the orchestration. Let's talk about governance and let's specifically talk about AI governance and I'd love to hear your definition, your interpretation of what's the difference between traditional data governance and AI governance, it's a good point. So when going back, I always going back to say the digitalization area which is like 20 years ago for oil and gas and we always were trying to make sure that the data is available complete Q seed by humans by different type of machines to make sure that the data governance is there in terms of readiness completeness.
[00:21:45] Availability and, uh, cleaning list right now when it comes to AI governance, it's a completely different story in in SLP and in energy industry. Because it's not about having access to the data. Now is about making sure that the models that we're building is giving you an accurate answer and when it come to the governance, here we have different ways to look at it. Like many other big big players in in non oil and gas companies. But then when it comes to, uh, they're like 8 different ones, right? We're not going to spend too much time talking about technicality as you said, but then having what we call it the referencing the feedback loop the human in the loop and making sure that we are Building Solutions, not only by data scientists, we're Building Solutions with the domain data scientists that, they understand that, when
[00:22:30] These models is built for people from industry that they speak the same language. So when they build the drilling prediction model or subsurface, characterization model or production enhancement model is not built by just a data scientist. It's built by a team that they understand that there is a security compliance that they need to to comply with. They understand that there is a
[00:22:51] Domain background that they need to look at it, the data Pipeline, and data data structure is all together, providing that full governance of making sure that answers that AI model is giving is trusted because it's built by domain people. Not only by data scientists, the feedback loop the ability to trace the answers and look at the history is all of these things is available with the solutions that we're building
[00:23:15] Together. Fantastic. So not only orchestration, being a team sport. Also the governance side as well. Absolutely.
[00:23:21] Fantastic. So for the audience in the room today, thank you all for attending this session. They may all be on a similar journey to yourselves in terms of developing AI success.
[00:23:29] If you could go back to day 1 of your projects and you could change 1 thing, maybe it's Technology based. Maybe it's an organizational hurdle. What would you change in order to drive success faster, or better? Good point. So, when we often deal with customers, it it is always a chance to make sure that you align
[00:23:47] executive cues with the end users. So when we go and engage, sometimes we engage always at a cues that they have a vision.
[00:23:57] but then they don't understand the technicality and then
[00:24:00] In other sites, sometimes we deal with team leads managers that they have a great vision but not really aligned with what Executives want. So number 1, I would say things that I would love to change in in before engaging with any customers or any AI projects in the future is to make sure that sea Suites vision is aligned with what people really wants, right. And this is where we always see why AI, uh, 80% fails because sea Suites, they want to say, we want AI, we want AI, but they really don't understand what they want to achieve and users, they have pain points.
[00:24:33] They cannot scale it because they can they don't know what is the right governance to scale AI at their companies. So for me number 1 Mission should be that making sure that before applying any AI models in in.
[00:24:45] Into your organization. Make sure that your C Suites and end users are aligned into Northstar message of making sure that this project will be successful based on company vision and end users Ambitions at the same time, got it and it keeps those senior leaders accountable for the initiatives that are under their remit as well. Right. Yep. Okay, perfect. 1, final question from me and then I know we have a little demo that we can walk through on the screen as well, see to see what you've built.
[00:25:11] We're at Gartner, we're hearing a lot about agentic AI for for SLB. Where do you see the future of agentic? AI playing over? Say the next 24 months? Good point. So, uh, again, I refer back to the opening speech remark and they said if you don't lead, ai ai will lead you right? And remember again, I keep saying digital
[00:25:30] Ization. 2030 years ago now we're moving into agent.
[00:25:34] A very big event in oil and gas as similar as this data analytics event called attic Abu. Dhabi International petroleum, exhibition and Conference
[00:25:43] In that event. Our CEO launched what we call a TA which is our very first agentic oil and gas assistant for, uh, mainly changing the way that our engineers and our customers work today. And what we see that this type of agent workflows is evolving very fast and going back again to the opening speech, we see that people are sick of from just seeing dashboard. Just trying to follow a workflow to achieve a results.
[00:26:10] And looking at also, new people coming new generation coming. They're looking for things that can be.
[00:26:15] In a very fast way, right? And now to get this Talent comes in and to make sure that we are in the fast pace of agentic, work flows, we launched what we call a TA and what ta is doing is the disrupting the way that all our energy operators is going to do the work in the future.
[00:26:32] It's going to be more of chat experience connected to the, to the models. So we're not saying it's just a chat experience, looking at data sets, it's a chat experience. On top of our industry platforms for draining, subsurface production, powered by data IQ, powered by a different llms that depending on which operators preferences.
[00:26:55] to in the future instead of having a drilling engineer today need to go to a very
[00:27:00] Advanced Digital platform to design a world, they can go there simply in 2 years and I can see that. Hopefully I can sit down with you here and demonstrate this in 2 years because today what we are doing, we're helping customers instead of spending hours. Looking at the data in seconds, they can say. Okay, what happened to that word? What was the you know, the NBT of that? Well what do you think is the prediction of time breakdown of that? Well, operation, that will cost.
[00:27:24] And this is what we call it from advisory to insights. But what we are moving into what we call it fully autonomous agents where we technically are aiming in 3 years from now by having just a prompt designed for me. This will and this coordinate to have a smart system to to entirely going into your offset data and understand your context, which is
[00:27:45] The surface location, the downhole target. Connect with your subsurface model, understand your productivity.
[00:27:50] Impact which is in terms of production and give you a well, ready for execution. Not only that having a machine at the rig, which is the rig ready to execute this human list or without any human intervention. So, what we see today that in 3 years from now, hopefully in uh, Gartner 2029, we're going to show you this in action. Today, we have some stuff that we have built, which is exciting enough for oil and gas maybe for you apit exciting, right? Is not that much exciting as we know that in oil and gas. We're trying to cope with other Industries in in agentic workflows. But in 3 years from now, this is what we see how agentic workflows is disturbing.
[00:28:30] The way we're working today. Fantastic. You heard it here first folks. So Ahmed, I'm going to give you a minute to walk through a little bit of a solution on the screen. Yeah. This is just an example. How uh, you know, works of days and months is from a typical
[00:28:45] I would say, software engineer or a domain Engineers Changed by using data, IQ to be in seconds. And, and, and the way that have a aiq held on creating what we call it low code and no code environment. Enabled, a data scientist. Who's a drilling engineer into went into a program, become a domain data, scientists to build this workflows at drilling engineer. With 17 years experience, it will barely be able to read documents looking at some
[00:29:15] But then imagine when we augment them with data science background, they were able to build all of this data Pipelines.
[00:29:21] Because it's very strict forward. Very, very simple to do it after learning data IQ on on, on 1 or 2 weeks,
[00:29:27] Building the AI models connecting to different llms. As I mentioned, we have the freedom to connect with, with the llm mesh that we have.
[00:29:35] Ability to fine-tune the model and then produce a web app, right? So today, all of this is happening in a matter of clicks. By someone, who knows what he's doing, right? And as I mentioned, is not just a data scientist because if you give this problem statement to a data scientist, they need to understand the domain, which is not possible. And it's not easy, it's not just a domain person. This is a domain data scientists working on
[00:29:59] His, or her back.
[00:30:00] Ground applying the data science experience and then producing products or solutions that can be usable immediately. And this is where we see working with a partner will change the way that AI is scaling. And AI adoption can take a place in the future. Fantastic Ackman. Thank you so much for walking through the session. Today. If you have any more questions we're down at Booth 404, we'd love to walk. You through the platform. Thank you so much for attending and enjoy the rest of the conference. Thank you.