[00:00:06] So hello everyone. Good afternoon. My name is Mo alatan and the L in the middle is not AI for those of you who's wondering, so AI is not my middle name, even though I work in the field,
[00:00:18] So I'm the head of data and AI transformation uh what does it mean? That's a lot of buzzwords in a 1 title um AI transformation head. Um, so I will try to decode what I'm doing at medium art, setan and I will start with um, a quick question to all of you.
[00:00:37] Have you ever forgot to drink water?
[00:00:40] Raise your hand.
[00:00:41] All of us almost did. What happens when you forget to drink water?
[00:00:46] Thirsty diet. No. Okay. That's
[00:00:51] Okay, so you might die. Yes, you get thirsty. You might get headache. You might get a lot of side effects. So water is needed an important for life. And the way we look at it is transformation is like water for companies. The minute you stop transforming, you might get headache. The longer you stay without transformation, you might die and we don't want to die.
[00:01:12] The thing about water is the following, the water can transform by itself to a very powerful format. You know, if you implement the right energy source, if you have it in the right, vessel the right container. And if you have it for enough time,
[00:01:30] Water can transform into good power and this is what I would like to talk about today. So how do we do our transformation? Basically it's using the same concept for us. We would like to accelerate how we Implement scalable successful transformation using technology using processes and enabling the Enterprise to adopt this.
[00:01:51] And for that, we came up with an AI transformation framework where we are trying to bring the AI transformation, from a buzzword to an actual execution. How does this framework look like? It's very similar to the water right? You need a vessel. You need an energy source and you need some time for it. How did we translate this into our framework?
[00:02:11] Energy is about mobilization and governance.
[00:02:15] So getting the people behind and involved into it, then we have the vessel which is focused transformation bits, and the third 1 is clear, change management, where we use time to get people involved. And this is what I would like to talk today about starting with mobilization and governance. So why is this important? You might have heard it in the morning, right? We're talking about AI being accelerating more than people can, and maybe a bit about us as a company. For those of you who do not know, media, marketing media, maraton is the leading retailer in electronics, consumer electronics in Europe, we are around 50,000 employees around thousand store,
[00:02:58] we're all over Europe.
[00:03:00] And it's a kind of a big scale organization.
[00:03:04] To drive AI transformation in such an environment is not just a 1-man show or a 1 Department, because when you do it and when you put it into 1 place, you might lose the scalability of it. So we decided at some point of time that we need mobilization and governance, right? And we started by creating a community. So we started with an AI and transformation Community. This community is about focusing on the people, because again you've heard that multiple times today people people people in the heart of it so this community is focusing on for men pillars, connecting the people from different teams, different countries coming up with ideas that are meaning
[00:03:45] Learning about Technologies about AI about automation about transformation. And then sharing sharing knowledge, sharing success stories. We even share failure stories because of course we do fail.
[00:04:00] And we thought that, yes, we create a community and we will have a very good successful start and yeah, it's not just about that. Right? So it didn't work out that well. So today, my session, I will share also some failure stories because well nothing is very Rosy and shiny as we might think.
[00:04:20] Um so we thought we bring some people together, talk about Ai and then we have a community and we share ideas. So guess what? We did a couple of calls, we invited some people and it didn't.
[00:04:30] Work out well. So at some point of time, people, stop joining the community, we stopped having interaction and interactive sessions. And we thought about, okay, we need to understand what's happening.
[00:04:40] So we started analyzing asking people, what's going on. And we discovered that there are different personas when it comes to AI data and AI understanding and acceptance within the company. What are those 4 personas?
[00:04:55] First, we have what we call an Enthusiast, what is an Enthusiast, it's someone who's exciting about AI transformation and just want to be informed about it, but those people don't want to get hands on. They don't want to get into details. They just want to stay up to date. This might be my HR directors. Those can be our sea level people.
[00:05:15] All those can be a store manager, anyone who is interested to stay up to date.
[00:05:20] Then we have someone who would like to build something for their own use, someone who would like to play around and have some testing and those are our citizen Developers.
[00:05:30] We also have what we call an ambassador. What is an ambassador? An ambassador is a single point of contact who's representing their teams, their function, or their countries into this community. The job of the Ambassador is to bring more AI. Use cases, more ideas. They need to know about every AI related implementation in their function and they need to talk about it and share stories. Then we have Pro developers. Well, as the name suggests, those are pro developers mostly in our Tech or
[00:06:00] Organization.
[00:06:01] So we started to understand what those personas are and how do they overlap and in essence, we said everyone who joined the community is an enthusiast.
[00:06:12] But you can be an Enthusiast, and a developer, and a student, and an ambassador, and so on, and so on.
[00:06:17] It didn't work out so we identify Persona. So what right? We started getting a lot of questions from people who were joining the community. What do you expect from me?
[00:06:28] And what do I get in return? If I'm a part of this, right? We want as much people as possible to join this community because we want to empower AI empower the people, but they were asking, what is it for me? I have my full-time job.
[00:06:42] I am full with tasks and my manager wouldn't let me go and
[00:06:45] Random get togethers around AI.
[00:06:47] So we started going into the details again, that's some interviews and then created a clear structure where we set for each Persona. What do we expect from them? And what do they get?
[00:06:59] Very simply, we set an Enthusiast, if you're excited, what we expect from you is join a call which is once a month.
[00:07:05] And in return, you will get access to a newsletter. So we don't say we will send you a newsletter yet. So the narrative you will get access to a newsletter. You will get access to different events. You will be invited to be a part of this community. What is expected from you is very, very simple, just be there and if you have an idea come and put it in our Central funnel, that's it.
[00:07:27] Then we have the ambassadors, the ambassadors.
[00:07:30] Well, they are kind of the core of our program and our community program. Because from the ambassadors, we expect them to participate, a minimum, 20% of their times in AI or in something related to Ai and their function. So, if I'm an ambassador in the HR area, then I need to work on an AI related project in the HR area.
[00:07:52] And then in return, they also get different benefits.
[00:07:56] We did the same for everyone for citizen developers, you get certain access to building and working on some certain things for pro developers, they get access to API keys. They also need to complete certain trainings and certificates to get this badge, right? To get the title of a citizen or a pro developer.
[00:08:14] And just like that.
[00:08:15] That the community started getting alive. We started, creating tailored Communications tailored events. For those personas based on the expectations that we have and what we want them to do.
[00:08:28] In principle, we also said that everyone in the calm in the company is welcome to join this community and everyone, regardless of the Persona can submit an idea to an idea funnel where we collect all the ideas related to data and AI in 1 Place EU. AI act. We need to do that. We need to collect everything and we need to know what's happening.
[00:08:51] This comes hand in hand with a very strong governance.
[00:08:56] If we want to implement a community, we need to implement a government.
[00:09:00] So the community without the governance and the ideas without a clear. Governance approach did not fly. So we implemented a governance approach where we also segregated the governance body from the execution.
[00:09:11] And we created clear prioritization concept for all the ideas coming in the funnel, right? So you get an idea. How do we prioritize? We looked into business case. We looked into strategic impact of those business cases, or those ideas. We looked into, uh, the impact on people impact on experience. And we started looking into different use cases in the funnel and seeing how we Implement them and the implementation was not done by 1 Central team because guess what, this team will be another bottleneck. So we have different paths. If it's a citizen developer use case we have certain enablement and learning.
[00:09:45] And if it's something where a real professional development is needed, we look into collaboration with tech teams product teams, external teams. And of course we had our own power
[00:09:54] Now, the community started growing and growing. So in numbers, we started seeing more and more people joining more and more people, interacting sharing ideas, the ideas and the funnel just started, getting blown away. And we were like, yes, it's working out. We have a transformation community.
[00:10:12] And yeah, well with so we're not working out that much because Guess what? At some point of time we had like 300 ideas in the funnel and we didn't know what to do with them. So um at the beginning no ideas. We'll say ah it's bad we don't have ideas and then at some point of time, we have too many ideas.
[00:10:30] So where where we failing? Right? So we have the idea, we have the community behind, there are 3 areas that I would like to share with you today 3 failures. Um, and I would like to share also how we are tackling them. We're not done yet, right? It's a, it's an ongoing journey of transformation, but first,
[00:10:47] Focus and prioritization. 300 ideas. Where do we focus? Where do we create the real impact?
[00:10:54] Second communicating, basic concepts, and third, how do we engage the people and have the right mindset?
[00:11:02] So let's start with this 1, which is focus and prioritization. Remember lots of ideas
[00:11:08] We have a smaller teams, we have full-time jobs. So how do we focus and prioritize?
[00:11:14] This lead me.
[00:11:15] to the second point of the transformation framework, The Vessel
[00:11:19] the transformation pets. What are the transformation pets?
[00:11:23] So we said, we need to focus. If you want to really Implement an AI on scale, we cannot just Implement everything. How can we focus? We looked into our Enterprise strategy. And from our strategy, we looked into the 4. This is the 4 of our companies strategy, which is customer experience. Story experience. So this, this is what we as an Enterprise are standing for
[00:11:45] And we link this to concrete initiatives for AI. We have 4 concrete initiatives. Those are our Focus areas.
[00:11:55] We have 1, which is care. Next, what we call it, which is about implementing AI agent.
[00:12:00] In the care function, on the next level. A second 1 is hubs, hubs is a human centered, AI powered store. I know the name is a mouthful, but this is about how we bring AI to the store, still having a human in the lead.
[00:12:14] Uh, the third is a genetic Commerce. You might have all heard about agentic Commerce as also, another yet big buzzword. And we wanted to say, how can we translate this into an actual execution, where our, uh, customers can interact with AI agents to buy and get Commerce in place? And the fourth is introducing AI as a colleague.
[00:12:34] Um,
[00:12:35] all of them are empowered by agentic and agentic AI. When we look into AI agency and AI agents and
[00:12:45] Um, this is where we started a bit to struggle, right? So we started big initiatives. We communicated big initiatives, big big, big ambitious.
[00:12:53] But on the ground, many people just thought okay yeah. I is there to take my job right? Or we don't know what's AI you mean with? Like I have my full-time execution of this and that like there there was a missing Gap and and this is where we were failing again communicating basic concepts, maybe for all of us in the room Ai and agentic AI. Super clear and we know what it means and we know what is an AI agent but guess what? Not everyone in the business does so
[00:13:22] On on an Enterprise volume on an Enterprise level.
[00:13:26] Communication about those topics was different. So this is where we
[00:13:30] Said, we need to simplify basic concepts so everyone can know what we're talking about.
[00:13:36] Training, upscaling communication, but also in a different way using strong storytelling. So, let me give you an example of how we communicated about AI agents. I'll go very quick. Do you know what is an NPC?
[00:13:49] There is a hand. I see all the gamers are in the back, so that's a good sign.
[00:13:54] So an NPC is a non-playable character. For those of you who do not know what is in non-playable character, I'll show this uh quick video. This is from a game called Grand Theft Auto JTA. Um,
[00:14:06] And what you see here, this is a playable character this person. And those other characters around are non-playable, characters NPCs.
[00:14:14] and you see when,
[00:14:15] A playable character, uh, tackle those NPCs, the NPCs try to react like you see, their reaction is a bit Wild.
[00:14:26] so,
[00:14:27] Yeah, this is an MPC.
[00:14:30] um,
[00:14:32] An MPC basically is the character which is controlled by the computer. It's not the player who's controlling it. And MPC is 1 of the oldest forms of an agent. Is it an AI agent in some new games? Yes.
[00:14:45] But it's an old form of an agent. And the question that we also asked, have you ever talked to an NPC at work?
[00:14:53] Yeah I think we have faced a lot of those NPCs, whatever you say they will repeat again. And again the same thing,
[00:15:00] Senses and we, we we wanted to get the people. This feeling that MPCs and agents are there even as humans, right? Um,
[00:15:09] And then we started giving an example. How did MPCs evolve? So let's start talking about Super Mario. Have you played Super Mario before?
[00:15:16] Yeah. Okay you had awesome childhood guys. Uh so this is this is the Goomba. You see this. This small potato. I thought it's a mushroom. It turned out to be a potato. This is called the Goomba and the Goomba. Basically, it's another form of agent. It works in 1 Direction.
[00:15:32] It has no memory. It has no goals, it dies directly uh it doesn't question life and it's 100% predictable and we started telling people that most of our processes are just a Goomba
[00:15:45] It's a process flow with the legs.
[00:15:47] And those are the initial automations. Those were the RPA, the robotic process automation, the vbas of the best, but the word has evolved. And today, we're not talking about a Kumba. So when we talk about agentic capabilities and agentic AI, we're talking about not just an AI assisted solution, but we're talking about AI agent. And then we started translated this into a bit more details to explain what is agency, and why does it matter? And give it in very nice examples. For the sake of time, I will not go too much into the details now, but this is where we started. Also, giving content next to the stories and we said, those are the 3 basic type of AI agents. We're focusing on, right? The basic intermediate Advanced. This is where we see the real.
[00:16:30] Value.
[00:16:31] So this is how we started explaining basic concepts, a bit more in details a bit more longer. But this is where we got the people with the right storytelling explaining the right Concepts. Now, you might say, okay nice, but
[00:16:46] How to start, right? So we have big bats. We have a funnel of ideas. You have a nice framework but how do we actually start? So we again, got stuck in some place where we said, we need to start showing something in a production environment. Not just school ideas and communities and get togethers and events and slides. And Super Mario's, we need to show value in production and environment. So we started adopting a new approach. We said we want
[00:17:15] To go into rabbit prototyping because guess what? Seeing is believing and in today's world there is nothing easier than just building a rabbit prototype.
[00:17:24] Well, it's a prototype. It's nothing to put in production but you can build something where you can test with some users and go out from an ideation phase to an actual seeing something working for you. And this is an example where we said, okay, we want to do an AI assistant, uh, where we have an interaction between a customer and an employee customer, walks into the store, and then we have an AI assistant on the device. The employee can ask, can I use the AI assistant? And if the customer says, yes, thei assistant, basically will be listening and it will be showing answers.
[00:18:00] To the customer life in the store and it will be rendering the answers on the screen, using AI to UI features, where you can see the answers coming to life without the, need to type anything on a keyboard. So the employee have a better experience. Every employee is knowledgeable about everything in our electronic store and the customer is just getting the answers on the fly without needing to wait for an employee to search for something and
[00:18:28] We thought that this idea is also right and so we get data privacy team. Uh it's like okay you you you want the AI to listen to everything. So we started with an idea that would have take us years to validate. We did a rabbit prototype went into an actual envir.
[00:18:45] Tried it by just talking to some people and we realized the idea is not valid. It looks super cool as a prototype but data privacy would not work out some questions that the AI were focusing on were not actually interesting for our employees. So we redesigned the entire thing and rebuilt it with push to talk feature. We linked it to different data sources that are actually focused on information that the customer would need and we prototyped again and went into a store again and all of this and couple of weeks is not in production but we are prototyping and we are going into something meaningful.
[00:19:18] now, the question is,
[00:19:20] What do prototype because again, 300 ideas. Do we have, do I Prototype? All of them. Know we said we prototype those use cases, which are
[00:19:30] Related to our 4 transformation pets.
[00:19:33] so, we go into a very Focus scope and for example,
[00:19:37] We're talking about care next, right? So I mentioned that we would like to introduce AI agents into our care and Customer Care Program. Now, this looks and sounds very nice but it's also very fluffy. Because what does it mean? Every call can be picked up by an AI agent. Every email can be answered by AI agent, we have more than 500,000 interactions with customers per day. What does it mean to go agentic there? So start very small and prototype because I cannot prototype on an entire customer experience segment. So I need to start prototyping something small so we said let's focus the scope but
[00:20:15] When we do that, I don't want to go into the traditional way of just automation right in the past.
[00:20:21] We could use automation Technologies to do a lot of stuff in customer care. So we said, let's focus for example with customer care, on 1 country. Clear use case, meaning false scope something, which is really adding value, and let's think differently.
[00:20:40] We don't want to think like we want to automate something with the use of AI agents, we want to think, like, how can we do something different with AI as a
[00:20:49] An empowerment tool. So instead of just having the usual calls that were coming in automated with an AI agent, why don't we go? The extra mile and see how
[00:21:00] Can we reach out to our customers with an AI agent? Would ask them? How did you like your purchase?
[00:21:07] And how was your experience interacting with us? This is a use case that maybe we don't do right now, but if we wanted to do it that would require a lot of investment in a human capital. We would need to hire people to take on the phone and do calls. What if we shifted, what? What if we can unlock new areas, where AI agents are enabling us that we could not see that before and how can we measure this? Because I think this is also something I've heard multiple times today. ROI ROI. How do we measure Roi? Of course, it's important. And yes, we need to report on our Roi but we try to measure differently when it
[00:21:45] Comes to AI. I like to think about AI like electricity, so at some point of time, it will be normal thing. Embedded into everyday life. We don't think today. Oh, what's the ROI of using electricity to empower us here? It's it's it's it's logic, right?
[00:22:00] And the same for AI. So if we overthink about Roi, I would say. Let's think about automation, right? So automation, if you're using an AI to do an automation purely an automation, you can always talk about Roi and time saving, but you can also use AI to have a better customer experience. You can use AI to have a better employee experience where the employees enjoying the work even better. You can measure your MPS impact, you can measure different elements. You can still quantify and measure kpi.
[00:22:30] But it's not always money.
[00:22:32] It will be related to money by the way, but this is not the starting point.
[00:22:36] so,
[00:22:38] with that said,
[00:22:39] we covered energy. We covered the vessel so time change management.
[00:22:45] How do we wrap it all with some change management?
[00:22:50] If we just focus on bringing projects to life and doing governance without the change management, this will fail and we realize this very soon. So we started talking about how do we engage the people and have them with the right mindset.
[00:23:05] so we came up also with a very clear set of around change management, where we have the, why the what and how, where we said clearly in the heart of
[00:23:15] It with a Y technology alone does not create value people do.
[00:23:20] Regardless, how many AI solution we Implement today? We need the people to be empowered and the what we created the structured approach to implement change management for all our AI transformations.
[00:23:33] And we went with a Pam personalized adapt and measure. So we really personalize the communication, the interaction for every AI transformation and personalized the measurement. So we don't have only the 1 leading kpi. Of course, we have the ROI and the value benefits on the top top when we come to reporting, but on every initiative we have different measurement, including how the people are involved as a part of it.
[00:23:58] so, usually
[00:24:00] When you look into the change management, people think about it like this. We go from the left to right from current to the future. We focus a lot on the technology when it comes to change management, what we always miss to think about, is the people and the process side of change.
[00:24:15] And this is where we said, we want to tackle that with this framework that have 6 different areas, where we go support with Discovery and implementation. We support with telling the right story with the narrative and communication, we look into how we can Implement ideas and hackathons and different events to bring the people into physical spaces and learn and interact with AI training and enablement programs we have adoption tracking.
[00:24:45] Where we track how people are using certain AI tools and continuous support around it and of course, process and organizational management. Right? So we talked about Process Management, how to improve our processes process Improvement is a part of it. I'll give you an example, very quickly. How do we bring those hackathons change management events to life, we created a chain of hackathons.
[00:25:08] Very simple. We said we invite different people to come and work on a certain idea.
[00:25:13] Where they can co-create in a physical space for 24 hours and we don't do this. Once we do this once a quarter, we call that let's hack X and it's about us leading the way it's about Innovation. It's about speed. It's about bringing
[00:25:30] Tangible and visible outcomes the way it works. Is very simple. We have a lot of ideas. We Select 1, big idea and we go and put it on the hackathon, where the teams can build proof of Concepts, the proof of Concepts will be winning. Um we have a jury, the winning proof of concept and the team will be selected to implement it.
[00:25:49] Um, this is an example from a last hackathon. We did, we already did 3 of them. Uh, the last 1 was in Hamburg. Um, we had more than 50 developers in internal and external. So not just our employees. Also from the outside world, just joined and try to build a solution, which is addressing a problem.
[00:26:08] Um, show you a quick example of how this looked like.
[00:26:21] Oh damn. That's the best hackathon I've seen in the past year. I can say for sure.
[00:26:27] I think it's 1 of the best challenges that I've worked on and it's 1 of the best hackathons still. Now honestly,
[00:26:36] The challenge is about, uh, integrating multiple AI agents to create a good good. Sort of a dashboard for yourself which can help, uh, the marketing team.
[00:26:48] This is an amazing collections of like what is a real need problem and we have to land our ideas and see if uh the reality and the the theory can together work.
[00:27:00] In a similar solution. So, let's test that.
[00:27:08] All right. So um to to to to wrap it all up, uh remember you need to have an energy, you need to mobilize create a clear governance. You need a vessel. This is where you can have real focus on some clear bets, and we call them a bets for a reason. And then you need the right change management. And if you take anything today, please take those 5 Points. Remember them, because we really struggle a lot to learn
[00:27:32] Looking to storytelling and simplification of the main Concepts look into how you can focus and prioritize in the best possible way. You cannot cover everything all together rabbit, prototyping really, really helps specially when
[00:27:45] Can you do it with real people?
[00:27:46] Engaging in mindset engage with the people, make sure they have the right mindset and assign a clear ownership. You cannot expect your organization to run this, just on the site. It's not a side job. You have someone like me. Someone like my team, who's their main job is to drive AI transformation at least for now because this is not an established thing. So have clear ownership and get the people to do it. And with that, don't forget to drink more water. Thank you. Thank you.