[00:00:04] Just on the boundary between morning and afternoon. So I'll say afternoon uh and it's on day 1 so we're all still uh keen and energetic, we're not yet. Uh paralysis of PowerPoint is hasn't hasn't crippled us as as we're as we're here in the next couple of days. Um
[00:00:20] Hello everybody. My name is is Ted on. I'm field CTO for integration within click. Uh I'm going to start with a couple of um audience participation questions. I know it's really hard, we're English and it's like we don't like putting our hands. Uh just generally in the audience, I really interested to understand within qlik. We have uh 2 sides within our portfolio with Gartner magic. Quadrant leaders in 3 of the garnet magic quadrants 1 for integration.
[00:00:45] Data quality integration data quality for 10 and 7 years and the data analytics for 15 years. So I people in the room just want to understand the sort of guidance is how many of you are maybe using our analytics tools and knows from click View and qliksense and those types of products.
[00:01:01] And from the integration side from CDC opportunity, Talent data, quality and things like that, and those people in the room for that. Okay, that's good to see. So, thank you for that. And the last last question, Paul, it is for that, just
[00:01:14] Uh as a keynote this morning and you understand the changing evolution of AI and understanding where it sits. I'm going to, I'm going to be talking a little bit around mCP and what does that mean and about working with mCP on top of our products and our portfolio.
[00:01:30] We rolled out clawed code within the Enterprise and we're using every, I mean, I'm using called every single day to do more within your organizations. How many of you if you're do using it yourself for Enterprises using Claude or gemini or or like coding assistance to within your organizations today, hands up for those people that are doing that today.
[00:01:51] That's what I like to see. They are the people I like to talk to because this is this is revolutionizing our whole industry, whole everything that we do whether or not you've been in the data warehousing space and your knowledgeable around sort of Kimmel versus Inman third. Normal form data warehousing and satellite tables or whether or not your analytics and all this
[00:02:10] the way in which we interact with software, the way in which we are now,
[00:02:15] Building and doing more with software is dramatically changing and those companies that are embracing those change and are being part of it that have they say? I always ask people do not call yourself a click developer, you're you're an AI engineer.
[00:02:31] You, you can go to your boss and you can ask some more money. You transferable skills. But basically everybody is now an AI engineer because by leveraging these tools to do more you really will benefit from the whole of the portfolio that is available.
[00:02:45] Yeah, that's moved on and off this then we, what are we going to talk about today? We're going to talk a little bit about understanding uh, the challenges first, split into 2, distinct sections. Uh, my slides today and we'll share the full.
[00:03:00] Slide Deck with you, if you've registered here once things, but you'll get all the slide Deck with all this. So so, feel as though you can, uh, you can get all of this content.
[00:03:07] But ultimately, the first bit of the deck here is understanding.
[00:03:12] Look, it's it's quite repeatable those. The key note today
[00:03:16] I felt as though that keynote could have been my my session, you know, the challenge is that we see everybody is saying, these similar things, about the, what we're seeing in the industry about context and Trust, in understanding the, the the value in which we can deliver. So, the first bit of the, the session here, I'm going to just again outline, some of those challenges understand the the bottlenecks that organizations are facing in order to, to get the, the, the value of, of, of the overall products. And then the second half of the
[00:03:45] Presentation, you'll see about the pillars of exactly what we are doing. What we have developed, how we are helping our customers on that journey. And there are going to be some key. Takeaways about how you can be part of this new wave to do more with the tools, which you, you offer today, and how that interacts with with other bits of Technology within your stack.
[00:04:07] but there's a common narrative in this is that says um,
[00:04:11] the foundations are not write AI is going to be. I need, I need perfect data. I need this perfect amount of trusted contextualized Data before I can get value out of it. And really this is where we need to sometimes have a conversation or we need to understand the difference between perfect data or the right.
[00:04:30] Data, for the use case.
[00:04:31] Is the data trusted and is it usable for AI usable for the business in this new developer tool sets that we have available in this agentic vision? And these are really key words, we need to focus in on a little bit.
[00:04:45] because,
[00:04:47] AI is just accelerating. All the same problems that we had before.
[00:04:53] We all, you know, even just in on premise Terra dotta data, warehousing World from sort of 1520 years ago we had these same challenges but what has changed is just the speed at which innovation is changing these newer Pilots. These zero projects are are driving initiatives into an organization. And as such it's the speed that is is is breaking.
[00:05:15] The process is that we have in place today.
[00:05:18] and and often what it is, is that it's the context and the trust
[00:05:23] There are 2 parts in the keynote this morning that I again, I have slides that look exactly the same. The first 1 is context, is King.
[00:05:31] Context is King is just like we've just had that phrase said, many times in many other sessions where and the second 1 is that trust is the new currency of of the business itself. Those 2 things together are really driving. The change is really driving the value about what you're building today.
[00:05:50] Context is your data.
[00:05:53] Everybody goes to uh Chachi BT or perplexity or clause, and you can ask questions about anything.
[00:06:00] You know, build me an itinerary of I'm going to France for the day. I want an itinerary, I've got 2 kids of this age which are the best things to do, which of the you know, it generates lots of stuff.
[00:06:11] But context to your business is the most important part, isn't it? The context of what exactly your business is doing the word churn, the word churn, how many organizations have analytics, and reports that analyze churn across any industry, but it's very different for retail to banking, to tell code to your corporate data drives that and you understand the analytics of what that word means. The context, the inference of that, more than anybody because you have been data analytics leaders to understand the value of analytics, understand
[00:06:45] Understand the value context, and trust is really driving these changes.
[00:06:49] So, as such these 3, uh pillars these 3 understandings, where are they failing? Where are they failing? Bug holes. Ultimately
[00:07:00] Ai ai will fabricate. It's still 1 of those sort of words to understand. If you go out and just gen AI to get that would generative, we you forget this. It is built to create. It's built to do. If it doesn't know the answer, it's going to look around and give you an answer.
[00:07:17] and that's that's these guide rails to understand bringing context of your business and the power, the power of the llm, the power of insight, the power of uh uh the inference within the data itself is really
[00:07:30] The way in which we can help organizations benefit from the platforms that you're building today.
[00:07:35] But ultimately, then the context.
[00:07:38] talking also is someone this morning from a financial organization and also someone from government in the same sort of conversation talking about
[00:07:45] The word what is the risk to the bank? The risk to the bank is very different in the context of an organization of financial organization to an environmental agency. That wants to know the risk of erosion to a river bank context of a question and inference, where is the inference the cost and where is the inference of the context to your business and this is really where the experience and the expense is coming.
[00:08:10] We see a lot now about the battle between GPU and CPU.
[00:08:15] understanding of finop story when is the right time to use tokens to help you initiate and drive and build a use case to build an agentic platform and when is CPU The Right Use case to then,
[00:08:27] Productize and answer a question. You don't want to churn up tokens every single time. You ask a question, you're using tokens to generate and build and and innovate and then
[00:08:39] Good old qliksense, good old things. The the value is in the, the data that you've built and answering that question in a repeatable process. And this is really where the combination of the 2, the combination of the power of llm and the power of CPU to drive fast analytics to your business is where clicker unique in the market.
[00:09:00] To leverage both sides of these equations.
[00:09:03] So what is it and where where does that sit ultimately the context and trusts come together in 1 frame, in order to better uh frame the question and give context to the answer.
[00:09:15] Built-in cost, this is really the finops story is where I think the battle is going to be fought over the next 6 to 12 months.
[00:09:24] The finop story is is critical. Also is about understanding the choice, and this is where the adaptability comes.
[00:09:32] Click we are not the 1. The 1 ring to rule them all, we are not the data platform that will answer all of your analytics and integration needs.
[00:09:42] The key is that we are the leading independent ven.
[00:09:45] For integration with CDC and transformation and data quality Data Trust moving data to wherever it needs to be.
[00:09:53] We're a big fan of Iceberg Open Table formats, the separation of compute and storage wherever that sits. But whether or not you're making investments in Snowflake in data bricks, you're making investments in Microsoft. AWS gcp streaming Transformations with Confluence and it's the data, the technology stack you're building, we are the leaders to help you accelerate the value of the platforms You're Building.
[00:10:17] And then we bring our Market leading analytics to the UK to understand the insight and action out of that on whatever platform you're running hybrid on premise Cloud multi-cloud. This is the adaptability
[00:10:30] And the freedom that we are giving you giving you choice to understand where the platforms are running. And where the compute sits, the compute is where the engines are driving Insight out of the data. The compute is the CPU battle compared to the GPU of llms and the inference on the data.
[00:10:49] So,
[00:10:50] We often see that the analogy of sort of, uh, all of your data. And where is, where is the the value?
[00:10:57] And we the analogy here is this sort of a mining analogy of gold, and that you can who you have huge amounts of data, unstructured data, structured data, uh, sensor data coming out of uh, streaming platforms or or or or or out of cloud uh, Cloud Analytics.
[00:11:15] But ultimately driven by the use case.
[00:11:18] The use case for me is the most important part. Where do you want to drive value? Where is the Insight? You want to start start with the question and then we can build out and refine the data to answer that.
[00:11:30] But you don't have to be perfect. Because this next Generation, this next sort of, uh, you know, coding assistance. We are building you. An agentic framework that can do a data quality agent, a data Discovery agent and multiple tools AI assistance, that will refine the data, make it, make it better, clean up and and analyze data. That is, that is not fit. That is not clean for the business.
[00:11:57] understand the use case come to your
[00:12:00] Data, find the value, show value faster. And then you can build on that to, to help organizations, to do more with that data.
[00:12:10] so, as such it's it's it's about understanding that untapped gold, understanding where the importance of of the value to the use case sits and I really like, uh,
[00:12:23] Again, sitting in the keynote this morning that Roi and what they what they that those 3 different eyes in a turning about return on investment, understand the value. Because that really for me, I I could take those same slides and talk to them myself and whereas this, because
[00:12:39] Understanding where uh, you as individuals are helping organizations.
[00:12:45] Your organizations, get the value out of the technologies that you're building today. It is starts with a use case but comes back comes back to technology and and this is really where the scalability question. Comes everything that click does everything that we're building is at scale. Your building Pilots your building projects But ultimately it's coming back to a True Value components of of. How do I roll this out to an organization of 10,000 employees? How do I roll this out to not just my small pilot answering a simple question. But asking the next question, asking the next what-if environment, asking the next, you know, what happens? If tariffs change interest rates change
[00:13:30] Do more. So instead of it just being dashboards and visualizations of what happened before we're leading insight and action into the future, to help you build this multi-agent framework to answer the next question.
[00:13:46] So,
[00:13:49] I already went on to that section without the slide, but understanding, then, whereas, before it might have just been analytics, it might have just been answering how much, how many units did we sell to an individual in, in an, a region. In a quantity, to understanding more, insights out of that. What should we do to understanding the agentic that the, what if the do more, this is really where
[00:14:12] the mCP framework to
[00:14:15] Build is really where we've seen the most interesting, use cases coming out of our customers today.
[00:14:20] We'll come on to that now with a few more examples in a few minutes.
[00:14:24] But firstly, I just want to touch upon a really, really clear differentiator that we see over and over. That is only now.
[00:14:31] Being highlighted in the world of AI and Enric in that. Ultimately a sequel query. Again, I'm going to go take you through just a few seconds.
[00:14:42] Is horrible. It's horrible for this agentic vision.
[00:14:45] It was fine in the dashboard in and says, here I am. I'm the business. I'm delivering analytics to the CFO and the CFO needs to know how much did we sell profit loss churn? We, you know, you as as business analysts leaders would deliver
[00:15:00] The analytics needed so that people understood that outcome here, I have a question. How much did we sell? How much did we lose? What is the churn? These are clear questions. When you have a question that drives down into an uh, a classical SQL statement, then you there's an answer to that.
[00:15:18] But that's not how AI works. That's not how the way if you go if you go into sort of a chat gbt and you ask ask a question of doing something, it's going out and asking 10,000 questions to then give you insight.
[00:15:32] If you're now order of the sudden have to scale that in a huge organization and you just got thousands and thousands and thousands of SQL queries coming at a, a traditional Warehouse type environment that is going to be really, really expensive.
[00:15:45] Expensive.
[00:15:46] Click have always been the leader. What we call our Associated engine, the associated engine of understanding, the data and highlighting, we used to call the green and the gray. But now that ultimately is where AI is leveraging this technology to get more value out of data.
[00:16:02] We are.
[00:16:04] I'm often called a lot of. What is your technology, moat? I don't know if people know that phrase and this, if you listen to podcasts and the technology, what technology does click have within our organization that can never be replaced by an AI bot. And there are 2 key modes that I'll come on to and this is the first 1 that I really highlight which is our Associated engine, which gives Insight out of data in real time in memory. So this is the CPU.
[00:16:30] Battle against the GPU battle because we are really, really powerful gaining insight into all of your data to answer that. Next question to do more with the data to be able to, to lift the analytics to a query. It level that is is above just a sequel query. And this is why we've been in the Gartner leader for 15 years for analytics is based on this technology and now ai is only accelerating this difference where powerbi is a nice visualization that sits on top of clean data, but qlik sense and the associated engine. It gives you highlight to bring all of your data together to gain Insight out of that.
[00:17:09] That's the first note. That is really, really showing our value that we're really leaning into as
[00:17:15] Organization. The second 1. I'll come to in a few minutes. So ultimately then we have these 4 pillars. This is where
[00:17:23] Talked about the challenges things. These are where we are helping organizations do more and really get value. And each 1 of these, I'm going to go into more detail to understand to share experiences about how we're helping organizations.
[00:17:36] Ultimately then.
[00:17:38] I'll drive on to each 1 individually and then I'll come back to it.
[00:17:42] First by The Click answers. This is our framework. This is our natural language assistance. This is click on your shoulder, helping you do more with our products.
[00:17:51] Whatever product you're using, within qlik in an integration analytics, we are bringing AI agents, instead of having little apis, we can have a data.
[00:18:00] Quality agent, a pipeline agent, a discovery agent, a help agent. These are orbits that make our products better and more usable by our customers today. So click answers is our newest natural language conversation analysis that sits over and above all of our products to drive more insight.
[00:18:20] And what type of questions can we ask now instead of just being a static dashboard, you can ask a simple question. You know what are my sales? Here you go, here are my sales and here's the the sheet and the the analytics that that have already supports and answers that and gives you reference and gives you uh logic to where that data came comes from. But how about an ambiguous question? Tell me why.
[00:18:44] tell me a
[00:18:45] Why question on top of the, why is this fund better than that? Why did I, why am I selling better in Italy, as opposed to France? And now the context is coming out and we, this is now all giving you Insight with the guide rails of the context that you have to help you to help you answer the next question, give you more insight into the data into the analytics as such. And click answers is fully fully native runs within our SAS environments to help you get more insight into the data. The analytics you're already running today.
[00:19:21] But where do we see the industry going?
[00:19:23] Everybody is embedding an AI within their products. Everybody is, is coding a systems to do more with the
[00:19:30] Platforms that you're building today, I really do believe. We're on where I see the industry going. It's on this sort of more mCP, route to where everybody in the organization. You don't have to be a click developer, you don't have to know how the underlying structures, see it. You don't have to know how CDC or data pipelines work. You don't need to know how to build qvd layers and understand all the structures you just come on to. Claude you come on to, uh, gemini or any of the other code and and start working there and Via mCP. Come and build a qlik application. Without any skills, it'll fully build. You clicks qliksense with screens and, and, and sheets and everything is with without you even knowing that you're engaging with click.
[00:20:15] But automatically you benefit from all of the context, all of the guide rails, all of the security layers that we as being a Gartner lead of a 15 years helping organizations build these things in a trusted format. But now you can experience this and drive this through a new way. Where mCP is is, is the framework where organizations are are building today?
[00:20:39] and now,
[00:20:40] How do we interact with service now? How do we interact with sap? How do we interact with other unstructured data in other environments?
[00:20:49] Everybody is building mCP, service now. And as such, these are gateways for you to link multiple tools together and build, fully agentic workflows to do something.
[00:21:00] To drive action into your organization. Build me an application, that does something and through, natural language, you can just ask Claude to do that and it will go away and it will build it. It will build some things within data pipelines. From us, it'll build a a click view, qlik sense, qlik sense, application automatically, but also link that directly into other bits of it that you have within the organization.
[00:21:26] We're not the 1 place. Where everything is done, we are part of an ecosystem. An mCP, really is the framework to drive Innovation. But with the guide rails, with the guide rails, that we already have to help you do more with that with those with that data.
[00:21:43] And this is 1 that I'm Al.
[00:21:45] It was sort of the most interested in because this is the 1 that I'm learning the most from our customers.
[00:21:50] We built a discovery agent.
[00:21:52] so, think of this now, as
[00:21:54] I'm already using click today to understand uh risk in the financial organization. So we've got all of these reports already built and dashboards and Views again from the keynote this morning. They sort of dashboards are dead, dashboards are dead in the way that. That's not the way in which we interact with data. We now want to know the Donald Rumsfeld again. Apologies. Am I showing my age with its not so much. The known knowns not so much the known unknowns. It's the unknown unknowns. And these are the questions that you don't ask of your data. And the discovery agent will go in and
[00:22:30] Understand all of your data, understand who is looking at, what understanding the queries that are running across your your data sets and highlights highlight things that you didn't know before highlight, you know, understanding where, uh, certain inventory levels have changed outside of environments or, or just understanding your business better.
[00:22:53] This is where AI is really changing the way in which you've been doing your business today, and this is automatic for you now.
[00:23:00] The discovery agent just lives within the qliksense application. You take you take a box and it turns it on and as such you gain insight into all of your employees. What are they doing with click today? What are these applications bringing value? Where should I be investigating?
[00:23:15] Certain insights into the applications to, to do to do more. And the discovery agent will bring this information to you and give you insights that you didn't have before.
[00:23:25] This is really where the power of analytics and the power of AI is really 1. Plus 1 is 3 is 5 is 10. The multiplier effect, really will bring value overall overall on top of the product.
[00:23:39] And the, the last pillar, the last pillar that is really changing which is is this method methodology around the data products.
[00:23:47] And really we've been this is our sort of second moat that I would like to highlight and 1 events that can never be replaced by AI.
[00:23:55] The data product is the end point of our integration story. We are leaders.
[00:24:00] Of CDC change data capture of talent, the engine within talent that does something the Swiss army knife of, of running compute. That does those those engines of integration, cannot be replaced by a simple clawed code query as such because unlocking, that data and making it available to wherever it's needed, is really where we see the industry going and this is really where our open Lakehouse and our Iceberg story sits.
[00:24:26] Iceberg is changing the way in which, uh, all organizations will think about. Where should we store data? It truly does separate out the compute and storage. And this is really where our our integration story is so aligned with the snowflakes and the data bricks, the Microsoft gcp AWS and the like,
[00:24:45] But we are not forcing you to go down that route. I mean data bricks are trying to a big fan of data bricks but they want to put all of that data in there, don't they? Because they're going to charge you for it snowflake want all of that data in their platform because then they can start charging you for it. Microsoft have been doing that for years. AWS good. I spoke is changing that layer, the underneath layer and we made an acquisition last year called upsolver, which is an optimization of optimizing Iceberg underneath the query engine.
[00:25:14] So now we are the leaders of integration, the leaders of real time. Data out of your sap, Oracle Mainframe db2. SQL Server structured and unstructured data transforming that and bringing it into an iceberg structure and then
[00:25:30] Optimizing it so that everybody benefits and then you just mirror zero copy that into snowflake into Data bricks into gcp right over there, makes it the openness of Iceberg makes that data available to whatever platform you're running.
[00:25:44] Then we bring our analytics story to this, and that's where the best of breed of analytics, answering the questions getting Insight in an AI World on top of your data, these 2 Worlds, come together,
[00:25:57] Our uniqueness and our motor and integration is that market leading components and our moat around the associated. Engine of in-memory insight into the data. Those 2 things are coming together in a world of AI and mCP.
[00:26:13] So,
[00:26:15] Some examples, but there are quite a lot more this 1's on here. You'll see that actually
[00:26:20] I'll Schneider Electric from the the session this morning they could have just stuck a big click sign on that that is that's us that's doing that. If you see the keynote sessions, everything within their have unlocking real-time data, bringing it directly to a data platform and then running insight and action out of that data. Everything on that slide was a click, it could have been on my logo. My my runs and understanding that helping organizations do more with data is where we are. Ultimately helping uh helping uh companies.
[00:26:50] So takeaways, what can we do? What how can we help last 2 slides with 3 minutes to go ultimately, I'll understand a use case.
[00:27:00] Understanding sort of choose an area. And I would, you know, if you are already using click tools, focus on an application that clicks sense or even a click View application. Maybe you have a click View application on premise that hasn't been touched for 10 years. Look at those applications using today and and take it on a journey to become an AI engineer.
[00:27:20] To an AI engineer to take it to a new area to do more with that data, get more insight out of it. Have a knowledge assistance with click answers on your shoulder to ask the next question to do more with that application. Modernize it by bringing real time data out of operational systems to an iceberg Open Table format and build on that to drive business value. Then through mCP you'll build.
[00:27:45] Agents on top of that data, trusted contextualized data, you've been using for years already, you've been running visualizations and dashboards and answers on top of that already. Take that value, don't throw it away. Take that value to a newer framework via agentic and mCP to do more with it. So I click answers or mCP in a trusted data format. That is really where we're helping organizations accelerate and become AI engineers.
[00:28:13] So understanding then the value, understanding that value to help you on this journey. Uh we're at a uh I don't know if there's any sort of
[00:28:22] People from BT in the room. I was at a, a BT event just last week, understanding their role out to do more with data understanding what?
[00:28:30] We can help them on this journey. They've been on premise for many many years. We have huge install base that is still running qliksense, or click view or integration or CDC still on premise.
[00:28:41] Help on a journey to Cloud modernized to a cloud strategy. And then, you can start using these tools to do more with data everybody. In your organization, can be an AI engineer can get value out of the platforms to trusted platforms. You already have do not rip and replace everything but modernize in a new ways with where does the inference sit? Whereas the value of the tokens that you might be spending in an AI World on top of the trusted foundations. You already have today. These are the organizations that are really really accelerating away and doing more.
[00:29:15] A single slide that is the sort of the 1 SL of who we are now as an organization.
[00:29:20] We're a data analytics and AI driving Insight out of your data, in a trusted format.
[00:29:27] CDC and data transformation, ETL elt is our foundation. What when we sell to it? Helping them build data, pipelines to move real-time data on premise and in the cloud in a multiple Cloud environments.
[00:29:41] Iceberg has been the table of choice, the the format of choice to support. Whatever query engines, you're running anywhere, the AI and analytics story is only accelerating. The value of click the value of our Associated engine of insight. Out of data can now be used by anybody in the organization.
[00:30:00] In this newer engineered world of an AI assistance and as such understanding your use cases, understanding exactly what you're building and how you're building them. This is where the teams are here to help and to really drive drive value. We have 2 boost downstairs. We have 1 booth in the main sense main hall where you can see demos with claws of of of of Gemini of any AI assistance that that you may be having our teams can help you show the new user experience. On top of of of the platforms we built today or our click answers utility which is the the natural language conversational analytics that we have built into the product.
[00:30:39] Come and have a look at a demo. Come talk to our our, our pre-sales, our sales teams down there, can they can help you insight.
[00:30:45] Insight into where you are today and we have a second uh Booth outside just in the hallway with the, with the, the The Innovation Hub. We've got a bike set up. The bike is really good, it's really great story because if you go and run on the bike, well not run on the bike cycle on the bike, it'll generate data. Real time data will out of a sense will be streamed to to Iceberg will automatically build applications on top of that. Where you can compare your, your cycling against another person or other people in the organization. But, but it links real time data to visualization and insights and action all within a simple screen, a simple, uh, use case, which actually, even though it's a bike,
[00:31:23] Is very, very representative of many organizations. You have real-time data coming out of sensors, coming out of C,
[00:31:30] Coming out of, uh, point of sale devices, how do you get insight and action out of that? Using AI or using, uh, just normal visualizations and dashboards. So they're the 2 booths for the teams are more than happy to help. Otherwise, I will say thank you very much for joining today. And, uh, I look forward to talking with you over the next couple of days.