[00:00:04] Hello, welcome to our session. Uh, this is 1 of our session covering markets, you probably attended some other.
[00:00:11] Um, and of course, you'll be near now for 3 days and maybe you also a lot of information directly fed to you from a vendor conversation. I've seen the Expo and we are presenting a perspective on how these particular 2 markets are covered.
[00:00:29] Um, literally, it is governance, platform and augmented data quality solution. Uh, you see, uh, another name here, I'm Guido here in the room and you see the name of Emmy. She has been contributing, of course to the material as a author of 1 of The Magic.
[00:00:45] Critical capability on data quality. Now we are combining 2 different markets here because uh if you like there under the umbrella of often governance conversation, as you have seen in the Keynotes, governance is under the radar for different aspect and different. Interpretation also, from Key stakeholder in different organization, tell us the new stories are forming. You probably also seen the debate about AI governance versus data governance yesterday. There was a present a presentation of the future of data analytics governance so it's actually different aspect are always part of our conversation and inquiries with our customer clearly. What is interesting.
[00:01:30] From our perspective is that governance is uh, when is deployed through data management capability. Also, imply, different type of contribution coming from different aspect of Market that are still existing clearly. When we talk about governance, we might actually include metadata management. We might include data quality, we might include Master data management, depending on the angle and the analysis in your organization that is needed. So there is complexity behind the scene. But of course we are analyzing simply how the market is positioned in our own market definition. So often, I don't go really directly in Conflict to say, what is the data governance for you? And you might expect to find some type of solution versus
[00:02:15] Other from our perspective, we Define the market and the market defined, the criteria of participation for vendor that are invited to participate.
[00:02:25] So we have a very simple agenda, we are going to cover the magic quadrant for the internet is governance platform.
[00:02:31] Uh Magic quadrant and we will explain. Also that is good companion and there's a Mastery to have the critical capability documents related to the market. We are covered the magic quadrant for uh augmented data quality solution and then we give you a couple of recommendation when you look into this Market, of course, uh you know we could stay a lot of time talking if you are Gardener customer and if you read our magic quadrant document, you know, the analysis.
[00:03:00] Is fully supportive of what we do in terms of methodology and how do evaluate markets?
[00:03:06] And the suggestion is when you pick a magic quadrant don't stop at the picture, which is a nice picture. But it's a tell the story of how, you know, we arrived to position and to create some analysis and feedback about this vendor.
[00:03:20] Now, if you never been using the magic quadrant from a gardener perspective,
[00:03:26] I always welcome you to consider that. The magic quadrant is effectively a methodology. Not just, you know, a picture and the same apply into our critical capability. Uh, are assessed by our analysis.
[00:03:40] Let's start first from the magic quadrant for detail in this governance platform.
[00:03:45] Some Market perspective, in terms of size of the market, this can be a little bit defensive of what probably the growth of the market is today. But it's important to say that in the space that we analyzed under data management. This is probably the faster growing space.
[00:04:03] Of investment from end user organization.
[00:04:06] Uh, we is important to say that the concept of data analytics governance platform is effectively uh uh you know applicable in situation where probably there is more maturity in governance. So maturity in governance if you like is related to the discipline in your own organization but also combining together, the as
[00:04:30] Effect of strategy, organization kpis processes and of course, technology. So this is very important to say. So we give you a figure that is coming from the analysis, starting from 2024 into today and is visible growth. Also, I would say there is a push coming directly into AI conversation from this market and then, that's why also we will have, uh, additionally, uh, to be published soon for those interested. And I governance platform magic. Quadrant, we split very much the spaces, but there are a lot of integration and touch point to be made. So when we talk about data analytics, governance platform, as I said, we talk about a market space, but also a product.
[00:05:15] Space.
[00:05:16] So the product space is typically the critical capabilities documents that is a companion that you need to read where we position. The use cases that are appearing in our market analysis, and the capability that are aggregated, in this platform to support the use cases. What is the focus specifically? The focus in our area is that
[00:05:39] the platform are there to give an experience to user, not just from an IT perspective, but from business user perspective,
[00:05:49] Policy is the core of the discussion about the discipline of governance because data governance, not equal data management.
[00:05:58] Is actually the way.
[00:06:00] You take decision in working with data.
[00:06:02] And so how do you effectively Implement is because you're working with policy policy? Of course, is not only by uh, direction of. I give you a law and your compliant. So it's not only about compliance but it's actually also understanding when the policies are enforced.
[00:06:22] How specifically can be improved inside the organization and change over time? So there is a dynamic aspect of that. Clearly, when you dealing with the difficult system, you need to deal as well with policy execution. We analyze, of course, the evolution of the market. So when we looking, for example, experimentation this is how technology enhancement specifically Genai.
[00:06:45] In the eye is changing the way this capability are using leverage behind the scene. Of course, there are a lot of things happening in the data management so the the discussion on context or the discussion and semantics or the discussion of metadata belong as well to how the data management work. When we look at the capability,
[00:07:06] Of course you have core capability.
[00:07:08] So interesting from our angle data, catalog has never been a market has been 1 of the critical capability.
[00:07:16] In Market jargon, many vendors, say we sell data catalogs related. They sell meat management solution and probably you attended the session about the magic quadrant for me the data management solution core.
[00:07:30] Ability imply, knowledge of my data, from a semantic angle business, glossary technical angle, transformational angle.
[00:07:38] And of course other aspect that are under the umbrella of modeling audio interact uh with your data, for example, from a security perspective. So classification is typically to be found in detail. It is governance platform even though of course is specialized in data security platform that are as well and energy.
[00:08:00] Clearly work from management very important and even more exposed to that in stewardship application, uh work or in stewardship activity. And of course, anything else has to do with, uh, rule management transformation. When you look at the other,
[00:08:15] Capability around. They also belong to the conversation. I just mentioned role management but security is part
[00:08:23] Quality is part as data profiling analytics quality. Uh UI for stewardship because that's platform is a self-service supposed to be offering different type of persona interaction with your data ecosystem from a governance perspective so a person can be data Steward analyzing the transformation tracking or data. So through data lineage or a person is a business user. They simply want to know the Matrix apply to Something in relation to your quality analysis of a specific data. Uh ecosystem and of course connectivity is behind the scene. Everything
[00:09:00] Connect the dots. So, typically the platform represent multiple data sources because that's ecosystem which is relevant some of these capability directly. Apply to use cases. For example, when you see information policy representation,
[00:09:15] Is about, I need to model the policy in certain way and this will support my policy setting exercise policy setting enforcement belong to actually representing what needs to be done and it needs to be enforced. So there are other characteristic like domain identification and user definition in the context of what is possible to do.
[00:09:37] Very important to say, you see match, link and merge.
[00:09:41] think about entity resolution this is
[00:09:45] Capability coming from data quality and master data management type of application and portfolio. And of course entity resolution is very much fundamental for any agentic AI evolution in your own initiative related to governance when you think about governance enabling uh, AI or AI ready data, this is also uh, part of the conversation you want to have with some of the vendor in this space, it might be very important that you look at something more basic inside your organization. And so, you know, even if you say, well, I need a data linear solution,
[00:10:21] On, I need a business glossary. Uh you probably today will find this capability aggregated and typically cataloging dictionary.
[00:10:30] Glossary are very much foundational in the way you want to think about using the data. So they belong to the same Market space and therefore, is very difficult to find, just best to breed, uh, solution that belong. But we analyzed hundreds of vendor. And, of course, uh, you know, our job is also Define how they belong. So, the question is, how do they belong?
[00:10:52] Well.
[00:10:53] probably many of you are in the room are familiar with magic quadrants
[00:10:58] every magical quadrants or use magic quadrants
[00:11:01] why you want to use a magic quadrant clearly, if you are an end user in the room, you actually want to have some indication from a gardener perspective, in our, the vendor perform and where the vendor perform in a quadrant is about
[00:11:15] About the vendor.
[00:11:16] Is not about the product of the vendor delivery, the capability of the market. So, the first angle is we focus on 2 different axis,
[00:11:25] You can say the focus on today what's happening. Now, what we know from customer experience of this, vendor how the vendor deliver. So how do they deploy and Implement operation? What's the products today? What they actually deliver this is very important aspect. Because in our magic, quadrant General availability of a product means in or out.
[00:11:46] So if you be able to say you're doing it but it's not available yet. Sorry in our scanning uh time frame. You're not a vendor that can participate. Of course viability. You want to know if the vendor is
[00:12:00] Actually may be profitable or not, it's okay. It's up to you to take this analysis into, um, you know, um, your own, uh, requirements expectation.
[00:12:11] How much does it cost still execution? This is very part part of how do you create your negotiation and contract with the vendor and also understand the philosophy of delivery. Don't forget that in some cases you will actually have an PC opportunity with that vendor. So you need very well to understand what's happening today. But also in terms of, uh, strategic role map clearly today also is, how do they do in the market?
[00:12:38] Does anybody know them? And there is more that very big, they have a track record of being good in execution.
[00:12:45] so this is actually focus on today, ability to execute
[00:12:49] Of course, if is today. What's happening tomorrow?
[00:12:53] I'm very interested in how the vendor is looking into. Innovation is looking actually in area that for us are becoming very relevant, is the vendor Focus. For example, on unstructured data, not just structured data is the vendor focus on consumerization. So the aspect of data product data Marketplace and governance in the context is the vendor using AI for sure. How they using Ai, and which way this is enabled them to have much better Automation in delivering some of the capability on even in interacting very different
[00:13:30] We we didn't use so clearly is in about innovation.
[00:13:35] Then of course, looking at the Strategic aspect of a vendor, how is the vendor play in the market in the future? This is very important because when you man, you know, you analyze your own requirement, you just buy today but you probably have your own strategic from map. So it's very interesting to understand what the vendor can do in your horizon. Whatever it is, 2 3 5 uh years uh from now
[00:13:59] Clearly things will change with the vendor. We are monitoring as well. Say strategy. I have to say that often. I'm very critical with vendor about how they position themselves in pricing. So, I'm very curious about what they do over time. If they are that into the market changes, what we perceive
[00:14:15] Because we receive a lot of end user feedback about vendors and we actually want to know exactly how the vendor is going to work. So completeness of vision or thinking about tomorrow,
[00:14:27] Is, what is very important? So let's have a look at the magic quadrant. Well, magic, quadrant is, as I said a typical
[00:14:35] Uh, product of Garner research. Typical means, is 1 of the call Big Rock or very important deliverable that we do when we analyze the market. I think Garner has built quadrant for many, many years. We have a lot of this Market. Uh, representation, if you are familiar or present in LinkedIn, for example, 1 of my colleague, all positioned, the top,
[00:15:00] 20 magic quadrant by consumption which also give a Trends about what end user on in general organizational. Looking for, we actually track these things happen.
[00:15:10] So for a moment, eliminate the axis in the middle, think about Innovation and execution that is the market space, okay?
[00:15:20] And in this particular uh uh Market what is very interesting is? Nobody is at the top right corner the market. Also a lot of space for improvement. Okay. This is the Emerging Market. Yes, a lot of traction. Yes, a lot of this vendor already present in many Enterprises. However, is a space on evolution.
[00:15:41] and is also giving you an idea of this uh, over time how the
[00:15:45] Market is going to, uh, you know, become more mature or moving backward, actually, or less or more Innovation. So, consider that aspect all the time. The other important thing to say is this is a market definition from us.
[00:15:59] So when we set the vendor and we look at the customer interest index, so we analyze an enormous variety of data points. We actually know exactly where where the market is perceiving. Very relevant.
[00:16:12] So the question is, if you are in a quadrant, your matching criteria, your present from our own analysis, there are more vendor which are not included. Sometime is worth to mention them. So when you read the magic quadrant, you will find this honorable mention which we talk about specifically Market space.
[00:16:30] You might be surprised not to see names. That's okay. It might be actually relevant to explain why they don't exist. But that's an analysis of this Frame. And so, then you have the representation in quadrants which indicate different type of characteristic of the market. If you think about the right vendor for you sit in the market space,
[00:16:51] Don't make the mistake. 1 example from my own experience. I met someone in New York.
[00:16:58] uh and he said to me, we want to discuss about something you want to say, yes, sure you put this vendor in the leader quadrant and we bought this vendor
[00:17:06] So you're responsible, if this we are going to successful, I say, well, you pick the vendor. Did you read what we say about the vendor?
[00:17:15] Oh no, I just saw it was in the leader quarter and I bought it not everybody needs to buy a a specific vendor because this position there it might be very well, your mature enough and you have enough capability to understand where you are.
[00:17:30] Other aspect that I want to mention technology is there to help you. That's not always start with technology your problem, okay? So when you drop a vendor 3 years because you say well we didn't deliver anything with that. Vendor think about have you actually
[00:17:44] assess exactly what you want and if you've done the right work then you needed to do. So think about that when you read the quadrant and the critical capability
[00:17:52] Different vendors. Different position. Different analysis.
[00:17:57] So who are the leaders?
[00:18:00] Now the leader space is very interesting, even when we are going to talk about data quality, we are going to position. Something characteristic are very similar. They have typically uh, broad coverage against the use cases. So they represent this. They actually are in both presence as execution and Innovation. So they are out there in terms of investment in new type of technology and specifically new aspect of the changes. So if you see the future of data governance, there are things that are emerging for example, in stewardship support Automation in that space or actually really dealing with large volume of multimodal. So structured and structured data working together.
[00:18:38] some vendor, of course, have a um the presence in the market from a market size and of course, this is
[00:18:45] Needs to be tracked in the quadrant itself. There are vendor there are more emerging versus other. There are more established
[00:18:53] So when there are more established, you always want to know how is the continuous evolution of this, vendor versus the market is a very Dynamic Market acquisition absence. So for example, Informatica is now Salesforce
[00:19:06] And there are reason behind the scenes also dictated by the strategy of sales force not necessarily by the capability of Informatica. So we were analyzed the market really Informatica is a market leader.
[00:19:19] When we go in Challengers clearly, we know different things. They actually have large presence in the market, but also they can be, specialized is very interesting to observe Microsoft in this
[00:19:30] Space. Because Microsoft is, of course, a large vendor is present in many organization. So, but we are analyzing the capability or poor view specifically, because that's what Microsoft does is their governance unified solution. Now, the strategy of Microsoft might be very different. However, from a poor view perspective, I would say it is not necessarily market leader at the moment. Okay. However, from an angle of how they contribute to markets the angle is evaluated. Also. In other characteristics, specifically, if you if you see big ID is also, a big idea typically is a data security platform. Extending their visibility into governance but still often perceive for
[00:20:15] Specialize in data, security. And by the way, also poor view comes often in reference to customer using data security per view was really founded.
[00:20:24] Uh, ideally on the data, classification of everything and single data.
[00:20:29] When you go into visionary.
[00:20:31] Well, interesting, uh, someone decided that award was really good in thinking forward and I bought it. So actually data word is probably now completely melted in the new offering from service. Now,
[00:20:44] So is there any Visionary? That is not a leader where we are going to discover in the evolution of some the other player which are not necessarily there but actually working in evolution moving forward. Again, each of these Squadron represent opportunity for you to buy depending on
[00:21:00] Your assessment. So it's not like the single rule, I buy a leader. I buy consider some advantages when you work with Innovation player which are not necessarily strong. In execution, it means you have an opportunity to do new things. Over a period of time with actually working in partnership with this particular vendor
[00:21:21] um,
[00:21:22] now, we have Niche player, we have a lot of Niche, player Niche player,
[00:21:26] Niche player. What does it mean? It means not second cities, it means this player. They're very specialized less capability in continuous Evolution or not necessarily broad coverage from his geography perspective, then maybe other.
[00:21:41] In some sense. The fact is that can be extremely good.
[00:21:45] Partner to start with. Because if you are in an emerging area of evaluation, you can work with some of them, by the way, all the vendor in our magic quadrant typically are present globally in at least 2 macro region. Uh sorry, c, 3 2 or 3 macro region depending on how do we look at the region distribution but typically, they are present in Neah. They are present in in in America North South America and then they have some present when they mean presence. They mean, they started delivering projects, not necessarily the offices everywhere, but they are deploying. So Niche, player are very good candidate for what you like to achieve and in the way you want to achieve it, okay? So consider that it's not like negative is the essence of the
[00:22:30] Market distribution that we are observing.
[00:22:34] Now I know I've been very short but because you know this is the idea is if you want to talk to me about any vendor, I'm very happy because we are at the third day like I said, probably you had your own tough question to the vendor out there and there are probably a lot of vendor out there that you don't see in any magic. Quadrant.
[00:22:51] This is the way we actually, as I told you methodology work and Define presence. Clearly, we are studying also other Market spaces which are today coming into conversation.
[00:23:01] So data brings there's no flick or also at the hyper scale cloud provider. How do they contribute? This is going to be Target of conversation is specific way.
[00:23:11] When we look at data quality, same analysis of the market.
[00:23:15] The market is bigger than the data governance is, which typically is aggregation of capability and more emerging data quality data, quality augmented data, quality are more established. If you like,
[00:23:27] They actually represent 60% of the old data management Market.
[00:23:31] Interesting to say is probably the market with the lowest growth in all data management spaces.
[00:23:39] It means 2 things. Well, it's fully established. But also the some data quality capability are absorbed in other Market or in other type of deliverable model, for example, into cloud or specific. Uh, you know, uh, implementation of infrastructure. And, of course, there are also consumed in terms of capability.
[00:24:00] From the 10th platform.
[00:24:02] So you can still buy a very solid data quality solution, which has a lot of characteristic of innovation, but not necessarily you will do, uh, you know, other type of aspect there might be relevant and typically, this is a market very much belonging to data management space. So not necessarily everything in terms of automation or policy is here. Clearly there are good participants. So they need to be using the space.
[00:24:28] Very quickly because I was spending to much time before. I just want to go through the pears perspective, in this market. As you can see, the use cases are a little bit more technical oriented in reality, they belong to a transformation for example, quality.
[00:24:45] Reply to application, ecosystem, transaction operation. They are combined with Master data management initiative. They are very much related to the discussion we are before in governance. So they belong in terms of, you know, contributing to um, the ability to engage more with business user from a data angle.
[00:25:06] They are connected to data Engineering in typically, uh, data migration data integration scenario and then the last which is actually the top is very Innovation is going to happen. When a lot of data quality is consuming all multi models. So structure and structure and is representing effectively, you know, quality assessment also in terms of feeding um the
[00:25:30] Quality data into AI type of initiative. This is very much related to augmentation and the use of metadata which is slightly different uh, that uh, you know, just apply to an overall angle is applicable specific to life cycle. And of course, um, I would say evolution of picture of data quality into data observability. When you look at the capability, clearly some are much more related to traditional DQ when we talk about, for example profiling,
[00:26:01] We mentioned machine linking, these are critical capability. We always seen in data quality solution and then you started to see area of interaction with customer, for example, visualization alert data.
[00:26:15] Transformation. Meaning, the combination of quality in pipelines. This is where the observability is also adding into the future. By the way, the observability is combining lineage quality large volume of data, real time. So, it's maybe an area for you. Very interesting, for example, when you think about using quality in context of trusted data, a trusted data model,
[00:26:39] Then you have, of course, active metadata support, which means using metadata, inactivating different analysis, throughout the market and perspective.
[00:26:50] The quadrant as similar player but different player a little bit more mature if you consider the movement. But also changing in the way, Innovation is being
[00:27:00] Added. And it's very interesting to look at this particular Market, when you look for example at um, this particular Market space because this is probably limited type of capability versus the overall or very much interest in geographically presence. Just to mention, for example, irion in the space is very much. Uh, in a company European company emerging and try to uh grow in in geography, uh, exponential work from a Visionary perspective into add more platform oriented, which are much more automation. Sorry. And with Automation in this space is really means.
[00:27:45] machine learning but also large language model integration but also you know, uh, real time profiling
[00:27:52] but also um in some sense uh the evolution of how they use metadata in quality assessment automation
[00:28:01] So the market is this way and characteristic which are similar to the 1, I explain applied to leader Challenger, Visionary and Niche maybe some different characteristics here, some player at the different. I mean I've been ISO is not a player in in in terms of leadership in the data analytics. Governance platform is very much in data quality and emerging.
[00:28:26] At a comma as well, is appearing as a leader. They always
[00:28:30] Being very strong in data quality and master data management and other aspect with applying not be surprised to find off an IBM in many Market spaces. They are very present and I'm probably the, the vendor with much more present across the data analytics Market, uh, in our analysis,
[00:28:48] The Challenger a very typically good coverage. Good present. Good actually exposure into the market. So they are perceived in terms of mature capability. Of course for any challenges, the fact is, when did they move in more innovation in implementing new type of capability in the space and so especially with the evolution that I told you about augmentation and how AI is going to help?
[00:29:13] The labs.
[00:29:15] Said I mentioned before tulab is very much an interesting evolution.
[00:29:20] Large scale deployment innovation in platform. Delivery growing into the market in terms of attention to Innovation. And in terms of activity to um enhance actually the really the platform from outside the data quality space.
[00:29:37] And then in this as I said, you find interesting player very interesting as later soda is always coming through inquiries uh including partially connected as well to master data management initiative working in Microsoft, ecosystem, irion, uh, European player extending that are present.
[00:29:58] Uh, the message you can.
[00:30:00] Cannot see. It tells me that my time is up. However, let me try to give you some couple of recommendation here before I jump out. It's always me. I'm always late. So I apologize.
[00:30:10] A couple of recommendation.
[00:30:13] Very quickly. Governance, ideally is in the space of more maturity because he Aggregates capabilities. So analysis of requirement automation of policy management and operationalization of policy management is very you need to focus.
[00:30:28] And uh, clearly I don't want to say when do you invest? It depends, but if you're not able to provide very well analysis of requirements and you're not able to assess very well, what you do you need and to have a PC or a proof of value when you're implementing.
[00:30:45] Don't make the mistake I buy this is because it's very rich and you don't have the maturity, the learning curve, the skill, actually, to deploy and scale internally with what you need to learn.
[00:30:56] In terms of governmental quality, the acceleration of capability in Discovery monitoring, validation, and typical cleansing or profiling activity. Is what you want to look for a vendor? And again, we are at the last day, probably you already spoke with the vendor, you already seen everything that you need to see in, but if you want to read more, please read the magic quadrant, the critical capability. Any Associated document. And by the way, speak with us, if you have doubts and you have a question of a vendor that is not included and you want to ask what?
[00:31:30] Why. Or in which way I should consider this vendor? For example, you might have a question of why data bricks Unity catalog is not considered.
[00:31:39] So okay, ask the question in this case. Uh, I will not answer now, just kidding. We try to get some form of information. Thank you very much. I think you know very well the survey we asked you for improvement but that was all for me and I'm already late. So thank you very much.