[00:00:05] Welcome everyone. It's great to have you here.
[00:00:07] Generative Ai and now ai agents are.
[00:00:12] A top priority for almost everyone in this room.
[00:00:15] And we're now expected to rapidly deploy.
[00:00:18] These things in almost every tool, every workload that we have.
[00:00:23] But lurking, underneath all of that is what we call this invisible under curve.
[00:00:28] And what we mean by that is that perhaps in the rush to deploy very quickly, all of these tools, um, we're not necessarily anticipating. The second order effects or third order effects of some of the immediate actions that we take
[00:00:42] um,
[00:00:43] so, in this presentation, we
[00:00:45] We're going to outline 10 such blind spots that we typically see in organizations, why they happen? What are the risks and more importantly what can you do about them?
[00:00:54] My name is Lena Ramos. I cover AI here for Garner for about 10 years now.
[00:00:59] And as a bit of a confession I'm actually an optimist. So my previous session was in the future of AI, all the good things that are coming. And I mentioned that because this might sound a little bit negative this presentation, but it's not meant to be, it's really just a a collection of cautions that we kind of collectively crowd sources from all of you. From all of our clients that our cautions of blind spots that if you address them, if you're aware of them, you're more likely to be successful in your journey.
[00:01:27] in in this happens, you know, because
[00:01:30] In the rush to deploy uh, Genai.
[00:01:33] There's this this incredible pace of change that we have right now, right? So if you think just about model releases, I was looking yesterday and we have like 6 model releases from entropic. 6 model releases from openai and just 6 months, right? So, just just the pace of model releases is incredible, but on top of that, there's also the the capabilities, right? So, 6 months ago, we didn't really have truly working coding agents and now we do,
[00:01:58] Or even 1, 1 ago. We didn't have uh, this offensive cyber security of the latest models and now we do, right? So this is a frantic pace of change that we keep facing and what what that pace of change means for, a lot of us is that number 1, our foundations, right? Like our data Foundation,
[00:02:15] And our governance, our change management, all of these things. They really struggle to to keep Pace with the, with the technology. But number 2, and this is a little bit more subtle but it's quite powerful. Is that a lot of us are really are really forced to focus on what's new, right? We're forced to focus on keeping up with AI adoption and this is really true right now with agents. There's a big expectation for a lot of us that we need to deploy agents and deploy them very quickly all the way from the CEO.
[00:02:44] And what happens there is that we typically will be taking some very immediate actions that seem sensible in the short term. But in the long term can have this um kind of negative consequences as we go forward.
[00:02:58] so, in another word, the
[00:03:00] The AI bullet train as you see on the screen sort of makes this this type of blind spots, almost inevitable.
[00:03:07] So let's talk about what are some of those blind spots. And more importantly, what can you do to overcome them?
[00:03:13] The first is Shadow AI, which I'm I'm sure a lot of us can relate to
[00:03:17] And why does Shadow AI happen?
[00:03:20] Well.
[00:03:21] Different business units, across the organization in different employees, they all feel the same pressure to implement AI to to implement agents, right? So they it, what typically happens is that they will look at the tools that we have inside the organization and some of them, some of them will be not on par with what they can get outside, right? So they go around your Enterprise capabilities. The first
[00:03:45] Effect is of course, IP laws data, exposure, security risks, that sort of thing, but that's just the first order. So if you look at the second order effect,
[00:03:54] Shadow AI sort of becomes endemic, right? It's the way that we do things here. So the business units go in with different vendors or employees doing things in their personal devices, that becomes the thing we do. And then the as a third order effect, what that leads us to is a very fragmented very low quality environment which is really hard to align and really hard to build on top of
[00:04:15] Right? So you can get in a very vital scenario with, with Shadow AI. Now, what can you do about it? The first and a lot of you have done this is to Define clear Enterprise wide policies. So very simple. Let's allow, what's not
[00:04:29] Trying to really.
[00:04:30] If people away from the consumer applications and into your Enterprise applications, and by the way, it's not just defining the policies but constantly communicating them. That's the real job here. Number 2, a lot of AI and SAS right? So mapping and cataloging the functionality and kind of vetting that functionality to make sure that you're respecting things like data privacy but also increasingly data sovereignty as well as we'll discuss in this presentation.
[00:04:54] But ultimately I'll say like the the real way to mitigate Shadow AI is to have really good AI Insight your company that is the ultimate thing. So we we don't get away from Shadow AI by blocking Shadow AI that just forces people into the Shadows, right? Well, we need to do is to to show them the light in a way, right? So we have if we have very powerful AI capabilities and
[00:05:15] We make it easier for people to consume those, they will start, uh, coming your way in which channel that energy.
[00:05:22] Number 2 is a very interesting, 1, technical debt as a interesting because it has this sort of 2-way street with AI. Because, in a way, I AI, absolutely can reduce technical debt. You can use all the tools to Target technical debt that you already have. But, of course, we have coding agents now, and we have 5 coding, which means that many developers or citizen developers or these days. Anyone can create applications with code that they have never seen.
[00:05:49] Right? And they don't understand and that they, you know, it's not been optimized so you have all this lurking sort of codebase in the organization that no 1 really understands and the
[00:06:00] first order effect of that is written list, you have this written list in your infrastructure, but of course, what's more interesting is the is not is the number 2
[00:06:08] That for sure you can go faster and you can go cheaper when you're developing this, these tools with this tools. But ultimately the the long-term cost of maintaining and fixing those AI generator artifacts is much higher
[00:06:24] And finally, in number 3, you can get stuck. Our Engineers are spending all of this time now. Maintaining and fixing instead of innovating, that's the classic technical debt, but we're all running a kind of a, a really interesting experiment right now. We only got, you know, coding agents 6 months ago and, you know, they're adoption is exploding. So we're going to see how how difficult and challenging
[00:06:45] In this problem is um, very shortly.
[00:06:48] What can we do about them? Setting just clear rules on how AI generated artifacts should be used, right? So this is code but also scripts, but also content. So for instance, content that is used in say customer service agents or chat Bots. That's uh very, very clear. Number 1. Number 2, we see organizations increasingly maintaining Registries of this AI generated assets.
[00:07:09] And very important. Number 3 is to start incorporating AI technical debt metrics uh within your dashboards. So,
[00:07:18] What do I mean by that? So for to give you an example, it could be a um, a a metric around. How stale is your data that you're using for? Say, that your chat bot or agent is retrieving from, right? So that would be
[00:07:30] A measure of the of sort of data, technical debt in the AI world, for instance, where it could be just custom scripts that people are using outside your of, your kind of approved channels. How often are they using them? And how frequently, um, are they deployed? So those are examples of metrics that you can use, uh, to start documenting how much technical debt you had and start, more importantly, trying to reduce it over time.
[00:07:57] A big Pitfall that we we tend to see. And I saw this in a lot of my 1 to 1 in in this, in this conference is that deployment does not equal adoption, right? And it does not equal value. Ultimately,
[00:08:08] So here's something that happens in our in organizations, right? You you have a new AI tool that you develop or you bought first month. You have like 80.
[00:08:15] % adoption. Then third 1. You have like 50% and then 6 months, you don't want to look at it anymore.
[00:08:21] Because it's going down and why does that happen? How come how come that happens?
[00:08:26] the reason this happens is,
[00:08:28] it could be a number of things but typically we focus in the rush to deploy and to keep deploying right to to move on to the next thing. We're not focusing enough on adoption. So we're not doing things like looking at the user feedback that we need to kind of continuously improve what we deploy before. So, that's number 1 and number 2, 1 that we see frequently is that we are not keeping Pace with the technology, uh, with detection technology curve, right? So, we are still using, uh, say a deputy form model back when we deploy this thing. And, of course, that's
[00:09:00] Ancient in in sort of the, the AI world that that we're in right now.
[00:09:04] So um, of course, the the first effect is that the tools go under use, but then the second effect is that the teams that they were supposed to use this tools, either go back to what they were doing or they go into into the shadow AI scenario. And then ultimately number 3,
[00:09:19] You get into this vicious cycle where you lost credibility, right? You, you invested all this money in licenses or development and no 1's using them. So it's really hard to sort of justify future Genai programs. So you can get in this sort of vicious cycle. That is is not nice at all.
[00:09:34] The basic thing here to do is to have a lease on tracking of kpis and this is adoption kpi. So it could be
[00:09:43] daily or or weekly users of
[00:09:45] The tool feature users, net promoter score user satisfaction basic stuff. So have to be clear, these are not Roi metrics, right? These are not value metrics, but they're trending metrics are leading kpis that help you understand? How are things trending towards, right? So if you're satisfaction, or your adoption is going down, something has gone really wrong and someone needs to address it.
[00:10:07] And number 2, as I was saying, you need to collect a lot of user feedback and you can also run adoption experiments. So things like AP tests, right? No, 1 says that, that needs to be only for customers. You can also use a lot of ab tests to, to understand the adoption and value of this AI tools.
[00:10:25] and finally, very common team in this conference, is that you need to have some
[00:10:30] Something like Jai Champions and by Champions, they're not just power users but they're promoters of the technology right? Because this is about adoption. So you need sort of uh people that are evangelizing that technology within the different business units.
[00:10:43] And and this is more broadly, what 1 of our clients? Uh, he had a quote in 1 of our case studies, which is that we cannot just rely on the coolness of AI if we want real adoption, we need to aggressively Market it. So you, you need to think about this as a marketing function and do everything you can to to drive that that adoption.
[00:11:03] number 4, is quite timely right now, which is lock in
[00:11:06] In this came in some of my conversations this week because a lot of you in this room are going to be in, you know, are going to be making some pretty consequential decisions.
[00:11:15] In the, in the next few months. Because every vendor out there is coming to you with, uh, some sort of agent platform, right? Everyone has 1 of those, it seems these days and it's going to be really important for the future, uh, but you're going to have to make some decisions, you know how
[00:11:30] Open. Should that platform. Be how proprietary do you go with a single vendor or do you go with multiple vendors?
[00:11:38] Now, I'm not going to tell you to not choose a primary vendor or something like this, but there are some risks with going with a single vendor for all of your needs. And because again, there's a lot of pressure for us to deploy things like agents. We might get into a situation where we quickly go in into, in into into it with a vendor and then we're locked in, uh, going forward. So
[00:12:00] The reason and the main risk that, that we have particularly, for the nigh and AI agencies is a number 2, which is what I was talking about. The pace of innovation is so high. There's really hard to say, okay, who's going to be the winner in a few years time, right? Do you have entropic openai? They keep constantly changing like, who's leading, who's who's not? It's really hard to even anticipate 6 months from now, who's going to be in the lead. So, it's about time to to get married with a vendor. I will say, and even beyond that,
[00:12:26] It seems optimal to go with a single vendor in a way because it's easier to get started with. But ultimately number 3, you can create a lot of architectural rigidity that you wouldn't have, if you had that flexibility, and that also has an impact on on AI sovereignty as we'll discuss in 1 of the pitfalls.
[00:12:45] So, in here, at the very least, we can do is to prioritize vendors that at least follow Open Standards, right? So in AI agents, that will be basically mCP, a2a and, and a, and a few, those are kind of the basic ones, but a few more Open Standards that they're not just, uh, kind of claiming that they they support. But they're, you know, actually support that integration with with those standards. Then for your own internal platforms that you're building, you can think about open more open tools that sort of the um, you know, the land grabs the from Land chain, for instance, or llama index. So there's a lot of this open source type tooling that you can use for your own internal platforms. That allow you much more flexibility in the long run.
[00:13:26] And finally,
[00:13:28] as we make some of this vendor
[00:13:30] Positions we need to keep like interoperability as kind of a core requirement of those decisions because as much as uh vendors claim that hey we have like all of these integration. We have a control plane where you can have your first party agents but also third party agents. The reality is that we're we're kind of far away from that. So you're probably going to have agents in many different parts of your of your stack and you need this interpretability to be a a, a key part of your decisions around vendors.
[00:14:00] All right, number 5 is a round costs, but it's around cost shocks.
[00:14:05] Because it's getting quite shocking these days. Um, we get this inquiries recently like, hey, I just realized that a developer of mine just spend like
[00:14:15] In a couple of days and we realized, you know, a month later and that sort of thing. And it's really easy to get into that situation now with with coding agents, right? So um,
[00:14:25] And It's tricky in particular with nie because what I mentioned is more like the API cost, but of course there's the data cost, there's all this total cost of ownership that that that becomes the the API cost is just the the tip of the iceberg, really? And then on the on the SAS world, the real problem is that you have all kinds of pricing models so you had the classic seat base model. Now you have the consumption base model, you have Microsoft talking about the seat plus consumption. Uh some vendors are even going to outcome based price and where you only pay for outcomes. So there's a lot of variation so it's really tricky to to do this so you can get this cost shocks, right?
[00:15:00] And what happens in number 2 is that leadership response by freezing budgets or troubling usage. So sort of raining back the cost and then number 3 you can get into a situation where this is not sustainable and and people start really questioning what you're doing with with with that, uh, with your cost management.
[00:15:17] So the basic thing that we can do is to have a lease observability. So we're tracking all the Jai costs. We're tracking token costs per in real time and have a cost a way to attribute those costs to different parts of the of the business number 2. I think we could all be more judicious about the models that we're using so many of your use cases. They don't need the the latest Frontier Model. Many of your use cases despite what vendors say do not need an AI agent, right?
[00:15:45] Because a AI agents are.
[00:15:46] Inherently more expensive.
[00:15:49] And and there's a lot that you can do with much smaller models that are way way cheaper the difference between the frontier models and a really solid model. Now, it's a 100x sometimes more in terms of cost.
[00:15:59] Final point is that, this is not just about cost, it's also about sustainability. So, this this models are not very energy, efficient, right? So, um, Regular Regulators particular expect us to be very aware of the carbon impact of of what we're doing. With AI.
[00:16:16] Speaking about Regulators. Um AI sovereignty. Huge Topic in in this conference of course.
[00:16:22] so with, with AI sovereignty,
[00:16:24] we see an explosion right here in Europe but also in APAC in the Middle East and
[00:16:30] you know, we have to comply with these regulations but there's a bit
[00:16:33] where you have a consequence of that in number 2, where basically this High infrastructure costs, right? Because a lot of us thought, when we were designing, some of these use cases that we're going to have a global
[00:16:46] You know, infrastructure AI strategy. But we ended up with a like region by region or country by country and strategy especially if you operate in in in different regions.
[00:16:55] So, it's this slows down in number 3, it constrains what we can do in terms of model, sharing in terms of data sharing. And what What's, um, particularly tricky here? Is that if you've rushed, um,
[00:17:07] in in Overlook some of these sovereignty considerations, you can get into a situation where yes you deploy a use case, but it it is not widely deployed across
[00:17:15] The organization and that's a big issue. So the the first thing to do here is to have that in mind. So we architect 4 compliance from the get-go. This is not a place where we want to take shortcuts. So despite the pressure, we need to think about how this gets implemented into in different countries. Second, this is going to keep happening, so we can anticipate this sort of digital nationalism. You know, every country will have its it's it's sort of AI Champions if you will. So, if you operate in many countries, it's good to think about open architecture and also Partnerships with a lot of those local companies as well.
[00:17:46] And finally in this, perhaps the the most basic thing to do is just to track compliance coverage. So by now, we have many tools and vendors that can help you track compliance against the EU, AI act against many other regulations as well.
[00:18:00] Ethical liability is also becoming a, a key topic right now, because again, we're deploying chatbots. We're deploying now agents that our customer facing, and you can get into a lot of incidents of an ethical nature. And there are many cases like this, right? So, in the HR World, there are a lot of studies, for instance, that when agents are used in in, um, in recruitment, you get like biases around. Um, you know, uh, people that are older, for instance, get unintentionally discriminated against, right? And this can be very subtle. It could be just phrases that people are using in their, in their, in their, um, in their application. So it's very hard to detect some of these things, but you can get into real incidents in very, um, publicized 1.
[00:18:44] Publicized ones.
[00:18:45] So, the, the first order effect is that people notice these things, right? So they, they produce responses that are biased or offensive,
[00:18:52] Uh, second order effects then is that customers is kind of a stop trusting that system. But ultimately, number 3 is that we start losing reputation, we start losing brand so you you you might remember like the big cases like 2 years ago Air Canada. I think had a situation where the chatbot offered uh, bereavement rate, right? So when when a family member passes away you sometimes Airlines do this where you you get a a discount uh, or a reduced fare, but that didn't exist in Air Canada. So, the chatbot offer it in, in the, um, the customer was upset and it was a big publicity in the in the worst possible way.
[00:19:27] Right. So, and that was with the chatbots from 2 years ago.
[00:19:30] So now, if you have agents actually doing things for you and doing things for customers, it could be it could get much uh deeper than that.
[00:19:37] so,
[00:19:38] Here 1 of the things that we can do is that, as we're developing, our agents, a big part of what we do is to create evals, right? So we talked about evil driven development which is all about uh we're going to first establish the evil and make sure that that the we're developing kind of the agent and iterating against that. So part of that evil could be this ethical risk assessment. So the case on mentioned like uh age discrimination, for instance is something you can think about, right? If you're developing an an agent in in recruitment, for instance, so you can establish some fairness tests for different protected attributes. Right? Is this, uh, chatbot behave in the way that we will expect? Is it?
[00:20:15] In different groups, uh, the same way, right? Or not. So you can, you can embed this into a lot of the Evas that that you're building. Uh, some of our companies, also established something like an AI ethics board and that goes beyond, you know, many, many people have this steering committees, but this is an Ethics board that is just about discussing ethical problems and in ethics is really important to discuss because they're very, it's not that kind of thing where you can establish a set of rules that are you know correct or incorrect. You actually need to discuss some of the ethical dilemas. It's it's a balancing act so that tends to be a good practice and the third thing is sort of accepting. Hey,
[00:20:51] You're going to get some incidents of this nature, right? If you're deploying those things, if you're deploying agents in chat but you're going to get some of this. So what is your process to deal with those incidents? So so having
[00:21:00] And incident incident Readiness process a little bit like in in infrastructure operations, you have, uh, a whole process around dealing with incidents, but, uh, the same but for kind of incidents of an ethical nature.
[00:21:14] Number 4. Uh, sorry number 8 is about piling silos. So again, we're
[00:21:21] Very quickly having to implement Ai. And sometimes you, you cannot create a Coe or an AI team in, in that sort of creates a a subset of people that are really focused on AI.
[00:21:31] Right. But you can get into The Silo problem. So for instance we see this sort of thing happening where the the main AI team or data science team developed something then it sort of takes a couple of weeks maybe a couple of months to offer.
[00:21:45] Personalized that and then cyber security at the end said, wait, there was this thing that we didn't check in and put that on hold? And after doing that spend months, right? Uh, there's like the business saying, oh, but we haven't redesigned in the process. We have to train people. So what happens there is that number 1 is people get frustrated right? Particularly those who specialized um, the AI Talent. The people who specialize AI skills. There's a way it just takes so long to do anything in this company, right? So in number 2, they start saying like I don't have growth in this company, I don't have, I don't have speed, I don't have learning right? And what ultimately happens. The number 3 is the frustrated employees and start living the organization to say work in AI, native companies, and then which can move much faster where they can have.
[00:22:30] Where they can learn faster. So it's a big risks in terms of of talent, this, this sort of silos that we have in the organization.
[00:22:38] It's a tricky 1 to address, but 1 of the common practices and I was just in 1 of my 1 to 1, we're talking about, this is to move towards Fusion teams, right? So Fusion teams are teams that involve business people with it. People and now with AI people as well. So you have the collection of people that you need to make things happen. Uh typically within within a product or or structured, something like this.
[00:23:00] It's a big transformation to get done but you can move slowly towards that. So you, you can say like, for some specific products, for some specific priorities, you can you can have some fusion teams.
[00:23:11] the other big Topic in this conference, that almost I had
[00:23:15] Like 10 1 on 1. Just on this question on how to organize Ai. And there's always this question. Do I centralize do I decentralize? And, of course, the answer is somewhere in between
[00:23:24] But, uh, I will think about more about the question of which capabilities do we centralized, right? So, if you think about something like strategy, that should be a little bit more Central because it's supposed to to serve everyone.
[00:23:35] Whereas something like idea generation or even idea development or product management, that could be a little bit more decentralized because we want the business knowledge. We want the customer knowledge, we want to be business facing, so a big thing is to avoid over centralization of AI Talent.
[00:23:53] And last point is that you can do a lot around incentives. So this is about recognizing when people are working well with each other.
[00:24:00] And it doesn't have to be Financial incentives. It could be, you know, I've heard in this conference, people talk about leaderboards and budgets and Innovation Awards, and all of these things that you're doing, which seems silly. But hey, they work, they, they truly work, right? So you're incentivizing people to work together. Um, and that, uh, starts changing the culture.
[00:24:19] Slowly.
[00:24:21] number 9, I will say is the the most uh,
[00:24:24] Uh the ones that make makes me the most anxious let's say and that's a skills erosion, right?
[00:24:30] So a key question in AI right now is what happens to our skills. As we use AI more and more
[00:24:35] Right. Even entropic had a a study or a series of studies actually that show that say the developers are using their, their coding tools. They, you know, they suddenly become less knowledge.
[00:24:45] Eligible about the, the software libraries that that they're using and this is a very expert people.
[00:24:49] To me. It's a little bit like, the the classic GPS problem, right? So I don't know about you but when I got a GPS in my car like back in the day, it took me about a month until I could not go anywhere without the GPS. It just completely my skills, completely atrophy, in that direction. And I'm aware about that because I can see that happening. It's very tempting to just give more and more to the AI to do especially as they get in better, but you could get into that situation. Number 1, where you stop practicing the skills that matter to to to the future of the role. And then in number 2, teams sort of lose that expertise, collectively, even to challenge. What is generated with with Genai. And then number 3 is, what's really Insidious is that all of the sudden collected
[00:25:30] Lie as an organization. We cannot we can no longer respond to novel situations that required those skills. So, this is the real fear that we lose the skills to, to really win in the business.
[00:25:40] Now, the first thing to do here is to identify, what are those areas, right? Like, what are the areas where human craftsmanship and judgment is is critical.
[00:25:49] Uh, some people also invest in decision, capturing systems that the document decision. So, at least, we can roll back or understand later on how decisions were made. And then finally, the final 1 is a fun 1, which is that we need to get people to practice skills. So you, you have things like AI simulators, right? Where you kind of recreate a the um, the working environment. And someone like Salesforce, right? They have access to all these things and and with knee, you create a scenario. So like a challenging conversation with
[00:26:15] A client say, right? So that you get them to practice skills. So this is 1 where AI sort of solves the problem that AI created. Uh, so it's it's a, it's a way that you can address that.
[00:26:26] Lasts 1, rise of AI native competitors. This is the toughest 1 to to counteract. So if you're in Legal Financial Services uh life science like you. You get what I'm talking about, right? You have all of these competitors that don't have many of the problems that we discussed today. They can go really fast, they can go really cheap, they have a completely cost structure, a completely different cost structure. And what makes this a blind spot is that you might see some of those competitors in what they're, what they're doing and you say, my top customers will not go for this thing, right? So it's a toy.
[00:26:55] But but then the models improve right in the agents improve over.
[00:27:00] Time and they start taking some customers.
[00:27:02] And over time, you know, they become better and they take more and more of your customers. And eventually number 3, they also take some of your talent away as well, right? They go. And, and, and prefer to work in those AI native firms.
[00:27:15] So this is not something that uh, in data analytics alone, we're going to be able to solve this, this involves the business, but there are absolutely some things we can do. So we can work with the Strategic teams in in different organizations to at least maintain. Um,
[00:27:27] To, at least track. What are some of these AI startups? What are they good now? What are they going? What is their trajectory? And informed? That way. Number 2 speed matters, right? So we can at least treat our data analytics teams, particularly Innovation teams and R&D teams to be much more like a startup, right more agile. More
[00:27:45] Customer facing more experimental and finally, we can take more of a platform approach where we are uh offering this self-service capabilities. We we get we don't become a bottleneck we get out of the way we allow people to go faster on top of us. So these are a list of a few things to be able to more effectively compete with some of those startups.
[00:28:05] Hopefully this was a good overview of the the 10 blind spots. I'll say it is an important slide. You want to take a picture of something because I'll say not every organization has the 10 blind spots but
[00:28:16] Typically they have at least 1.
[00:28:18] And that 1 my matter a lot, right? So in this I didn't come up with this is really crowdsourcing from all of you. So what I'll think is like what are the top 2 or 3 for us for our organization that we really need to think about?
[00:28:30] Out and think about some of the recommendations that that we we should follow given that top 2 or top 3.
[00:28:38] So having discussed all of this, I'll say the most immediate actions and Monday morning if you don't have a policy of acceptable use, uh I'll say we have very good templates and Garner. I'll start there to to start curve curve in Shadow AI.
[00:28:51] Uh number 2, there's a lot of decisions right now to be made with SAS. So we need to embed some of these sort of G validation this G lens into some of those SAS conversations pretty immediately.
[00:29:04] In the next 90 days, you can start tracking some of the AI technical debt metrics and including those in your dashboards as we discussed and you can structure, the AI initiatives, at least a start.
[00:29:15] Going into into this direction of fusion teams where you don't have the style and silos.
[00:29:20] Within the next 12 months, let's avoid over centralizing so AI shouldn't be you know, in the Ivory Tower it should be spread widely across the organization. So there's a balance to strike there and also start investing in things that can help you defend against skill, atrophy and knowledge. Atrophy, I mentioned AI simulators. There's also a decision capturing systems because we don't want to lose those critical skills. So, I hope this was helpful to you and not to negative. This are just some cautions as you go into your AI journey. And if you avoid some of these blind spots, you'll be much better positioned for capturing the value of the nigh going forward. And with that, I like to thank all of you and wish you a great rest of your conference. Thank you.
