[00:00:04] Welcome everyone. Uh my name is Brian Foster and welcome to the session better, benchmarking with Gartner's DNA, budget and efficiency Benchmark. Uh,
[00:00:14] I'm actually very excited to be here talking about this topic. Bart, benchmarking 1 not seem like the most interesting topic but when we talk to our clients at Gartner about what are the top things that you want? Our assistance on benchmarking always comes um up as 1 of those top uh issues and it's something that we've actually made a lot of progress on in the last uh year. And um, so I I'm going to get into um the benchmarking what we've what we're finding so far. But let me start with a more basic question, which is
[00:00:45] Why is benchmarking such a common request for data and analytics Executives. Um why is that something we want? Um, I'll start by positing that when we look to benchmarking, whether formally or informally could be interpersonal lives, could be in our business, right? Certainly within DNA, we are all asking 1, fundamental question, right? Which is am I normal, right? You know, I want to know what I look like by comparison to my computers uh peers. Um, and it's a question that certainly preoccupied. Uh, my mind a lot in middle school, right. But um, from the data and analytics perspective, there's important sub questions, right? That we all want to know which is when it comes to things, like my spending, am, I spending the right amount on data and Analytics.
[00:01:30] Uh, I met spending on the right things and are we allocating our resources, effectively?
[00:01:37] And, uh, it's very hard to answer these questions in a definitive way, right? Uh, but this is where ideally we're able to turn to some peer comparison. Um, how have others? That look like me? That are facing the same kinds of decisions. I'm, uh, facing made those decisions. How are they? How are they? Um, uh, how are they allocating their resources? I won't necessarily give you the answer, but it will give you something to consider and calibrate, uh, against
[00:02:05] But, of course, you know, if benchmarking were easy, we would all be doing it. Um, and there are many things that make it hard but, uh, but in particular, 1 of the things.
[00:02:15] A couple of things that are very hard about doing it in the DNA context. So I'll touch on on 3 of them. First, what I'm calling the Apples to Apples problem. It it's very easy. Uh, in benchmarking to make either the wrong comparisons. Um, sometimes it's actually difficult to know, what are the right comparisons, right? Especially in data. And analytics, we find that there's a large amount of heterogeneity around organizations and how they are defining the function, scoping, the function, things like that. So having that ability to find peers across multiple different dimensions, multiple different variables is really important.
[00:02:49] Um second 1, I'm going to call the heavy lift problem. Um, for any of you that have attempted benchmarking before, um, you'll know that it can be quite a process to collect data, cleanse it,
[00:03:00] You can take a lot of time and effort, so you better make sure that the juice is worth the squeeze, right? You need to know that the high, the high value questions that are really worth the time and effort to get answers to
[00:03:12] And lastly, what am I call? The right perspective, problem, right? There's no such thing as as end-to-end benchmarking, right? Um, you can't compare everything. So, any benchmarking that you do is obviously only going to give you a, a sliver uh, of insight. It's going to give you an incomplete picture, but I do believe what you want to be able to do is Benchmark, across many different comparisons, not necessarily all at once, but you want to be able to stitch different views together into a more complete picture.
[00:03:40] So we're going to be spending our time talking about how we're helping organizations address.
[00:03:45] These challenges specifically in uh DNA. Um, I'll go into 3 areas in particular. First, we'll address a bunch of the things that we just talked about. That are hard. We'll run at some of those common benchmarking uh roadblocks that we just talked about and we'll talk a little bit about how we've helped mitigate those in the Gartner data and analytics uh budget and efficiency Benchmark. And here very quickly, I'll do an intro introduction to the tool and some of its key features and how they're valuable. Um, but then we'll actually shift to the second objective which is highlighting some of the key insights from our Benchmark. And since we use this data uh in a lot of Gartner research, um will highlight some of the key insights. Some of the key Gartner positions that we um, that we believe are reinforced by the data that we see.
[00:04:30] In this Benchmark. Uh and then lastly I'll talk about calibrating scope, right budgeting and efficiency measures. Those are certainly just 1 way to calibrate the performance of your data and analytics function. Um, I'll spend the last couple of minutes, maybe before some some Q&A uh, talking a little bit about other ways to Benchmark and measure performance of your organization. And what are the important questions that you can answer with those different types of calibrations and benchmarks?
[00:04:55] So okay let me get into our first section, right? Um quick overview of what we call the BB the budget and efficiency Benchmark, just a few things that are help you, that are helpful to know before we dive into the key findings from it, um, we launched it in the second half of 2024. We now have data from over a hundred organizations, probably probably
[00:05:15] Right around 120, um, across from organizations across a variety of different demographic characteristics. So it's a pretty popular tool and 1 of the reasons that I think for that is we've attempted to design it in such a way that organizations, really do receive maximum sort of bang for buck, um,
[00:05:32] Um, and it's focused on a set of questions that are related to the questions that we get most often from DNA leaders, right? And by the way, if you have collected the data, it only takes about 20 25 minutes to fill out. So we've really tried to focus it on the questions that matter. Most um, what we're really matters, of course, is the conversations that you that this Benchmark can enable between you and your budget stakeholders, right? Investment, calibration justification, uh, de AI spending conversation.
[00:06:00] About staff deployment, what roles we need within the organization. You know, do we have the right amount and type of people in the right places. Um,
[00:06:10] Just curious, is anyone taken it so far? Does anyone know if their organization has leveraged? It, it is still relatively new. Okay, all right. Well 1 maybe 2, uh, out there, all right. But let me dive into this for a minute, um, quickly highlight, uh, what you get. So if you go to gartner.com and you fill out the, this is what you see on your landing page. Right. You can see the different categories there, right? There's a category for overall spending allocation um Staffing and structures. And most new the newest section. This was just updated um at the beginning of this year um more detail on AI.
[00:06:45] Spending 1 of the, of course, big areas that a lot of people are are focused on right now. Um, 1 of the things that you'll notice on this is the screenshot is titled DNA Benchmark, February 2026, that is because, of course, you have the ability to do the Benchmark more than once, or most likely you're going to create updated benchmarks each year. This is what a lot of organizations do they come back year, uh, after year after year? Um, you can assess this, you can access this on your landing page. And also, all of the other Gartner benchmarks that we have, uh, that you have access to on The Benchmark tools, uh, gartner.com, but a c, a few quick other things to note. Um, in the online version of The Benchmark, you have that ability to select comparison groups. There's actually over 20 different industry choices that you have 10 different size segments, 3, different,
[00:07:30] Uh, company, uh, regions uh, that you can filter by. Um, and I'll admit that our data set is still growing. So um, you won't get data cuts at this point, if you try and optimize across, you know, 3 different variables, which generally cross 2 or so you're going to get uh you're going to get the ability to create different peer groups and look at different perspectives.
[00:07:51] Um, as I mentioned, we've added a few features to reduce the burden of submission. If you a few features worthy of note, first towards the bottom of the slide, uh, for all of our data fields, for any of the terms that we use, you can find Details. Uh, uh, uh, definitions. This really helps. Of course, when you're trying to ensure that you're collecting Apples to Apples, uh, data from all the participating organizations, um, towards the top. Uh, sometimes because they're different.
[00:08:15] Different people that have our own different different elements of data sets, for instance, you know, Finance for spending or HR for Staffing, you have the ability to delegate uh, various different survey elements to different different colleagues. And lastly, um, you know, access to Gartner support is only a quick click away if there's any questions that you have about it.
[00:08:34] Um another important feature that I'll call out about its usability. Um, 1 of the things that Gartner clients, you've taken it really like is the fact that you don't need to actually fill out the entire survey before you can actually start seeing some of the results. Um, as soon as you populate, the major collection Fields with your data, you can very quickly as you can see on the top right of the slide preview, uh what you have and your results will appear in a pop-up window. Uh, comparing your
[00:09:00] Organization with the overall data set. But on top of that, even in preview mode, you can quickly, you know, input different filters so you can fine-tune your view, uh, and comparison. So very useful right off the bat, even if you're only filling out parts of the survey,
[00:09:13] So while I've been focusing on the cool things you can do with the online platform, of course, some of us prefer like, good old-fashioned PowerPoint, and of course, you can download a benchmark report at any time. This makes, you know, uh, our report, we recognize, you might want to use these different, uh, graphics for presentations of your own, and it's good for internal communication with stakeholders, okay?
[00:09:34] So that's enough for the Beeb advertorial, right? Um, but I found it's useful to kind of ground this as we get into the second part which is what are we learning from The Benchmark data set that we have?
[00:09:45] Uh, so far and what are the insights that you can take away from it? Um, of course, we could spend a lot of time going into every different detail of the data set. But what I want to highlight is just um, some of the key most interesting highlights, right? Um,
[00:10:01] so I'm going to start with the most basic question. The most people want to know, which is overall spending, right? Am I spending the right amount on DNA and at the highest level, 1 way, 1 way to assess this, which allows you to have a more normalized view is, um, looking at total DNA spending versus company revenues, right? So you can see here. Is that median spend on DNA over 1 year period is about half a percentage point of revenues or basically the average organization in our data set is spent
[00:10:30] About 5 dollars of DNA per thousand dollars of uh company Revenue. Now quite a few caveats here. First, you can see in some of the fine prints that we were talking. We're talking about total spend and that this definition is quite inclusive. It includes centralized spend decentralized, spend it and non-it. Uh, DNA related spend as well. The second thing you can notice by the bars there is that there's a pretty wide range in our data set, right? So at the 25th percentile uh average spend was about a tenth of a percentage Point. Well, the 75th percentile in the data set was 1.2% of revenues. Um, now also not surprisingly, there were a lot of
[00:11:15] Different variables are correlated with these different levels of spend. I'll talk a bit about those next. Um while the 0.5% of revenues half, a percent of of revenues represented the median amount and the overall data set, you can see that the overall distribution varies quite a bit. Um first of all there was a decent variation by size of organization. As you might imagine small organizations tend to spend more on DNA relative to overall revenues, roughly double, the amount versus the overall data set.
[00:11:44] Um, and then large, uh, larger organizations were spending about half the overall data set. You can also see that, not surprisingly, there's definitely some skewness in the data, uh, and there's meaningful differences between median and mean, right? So, especially for the larger end of
[00:12:00] Data set, some very large organizations are spending uh, way more than others. And look at the average median span write 411 million versus only 60 million for the median right now. Not surprising the other main driver, right? For this difference besides organizational size is industry and here you can see how this breaks out as you would imagine more information intensive uh or technology intensive Industries like Telecom and financial services. They have a higher Enterprise data. Um DNA spend levels versus less information, intensive Industries, like maybe retail right.
[00:12:35] So here's our Gartner takeaway from all of this, right? Um you know basically context is King right? There's no single DNA optimal.
[00:12:45] Spending level, even when you normalize. Right? So calibrating, calibrating across a peer group to validate uh General Target, SP uh, ranges for spending uh to get the best answer to. Hey, am I spending the right amount? Relative to peers, right.
[00:13:02] So that's overall spending. Let me talk a little bit about how that money is spent and some of the most important categories.
[00:13:09] So here we have how overall spend was? Allocated across different asset classes, right inclusive of DNA technology, people and external Services organizational, spend is a bit under a third, uh, of total DNA funds, um, on technology, different flavors of software. Right, about 20% went to
[00:13:30] External services, but a slight majority of DNA spend is on Personnel, right with roughly a 70-30, split between internal staff and contractors. So most DNA spending right now is of course on people, right? But the interesting thing is that as you can see here, the percentage of people in DNA relative to overall employee base of companies has increased slightly between 2024 and 2025. This is the 1 segment where we do actually have enough to have year-over-year data. Um, so our our, uh, data shows that on average DNA, staff counts have risen, very slowly, at least in proportion to overall the, the overall employee base. Um, we believe that this is driven by hiring or Contracting for a lot of skills related to AI.
[00:14:14] but again, we need
[00:14:15] Get down in the subgroups, you start to see a different story. Uh, we're looking here at DNA Staffing levels, but this time we're looking at, the variations we saw by organizational size as a proportion of total employees. You can see that the you can see that there's a drop off from small to medium-sized organizations, pretty sizable, right? It goes from 3.6% of employees, for organizations under 2500 employees, to half a percentage point for those 25 to uh, 10K and then route stays relatively flat. As you get to the largest organizations with DNA employees representing about 0.4% of employees at the largest organizations, right?
[00:14:55] Right. So what's the takeaway? You know, we think that this is um, uh,
[00:15:00] Uh, pretty useful, but keep in mind. Alright, well smaller organizations, often maintained, uh, proportionally. Larger, DNA teams larger organizations, should prioritize capability development over simply just adjusting headcount
[00:15:13] Right. So with that, let me move from talking about how many employees, right? DNA employees. There are to an organization to how, uh, they're organized, right? Um, 1 of the questions that we do, ask India is is how are you organized overall? Now of course, organizational structure is not a black or white issue uh as you can imagine right there can be all kinds of approaches and flavors of organization. But what we asked our respondents to sort of allocate themselves generally to these groups, are you generally more centralized or you more decentralized or somewhere in the middle?
[00:15:45] Hybrid uh, you know, hybrid or Federated, you can see that a slight majority of DNA organizations report being mostly centralized with only a minority, uh, reporting that they're mostly decentralized. Now, there's probably some selection bias here in terms of the group of individuals that are taking the survey, right. But um, what? We don't have a year-over-year data on this. Yet, our anecdotal evidence indicates that it's the bar in the middle that's actually growing the fastest, right? So, DNA leaders are increasingly moving to the hybrid or Central feder, uh, hybrid structure to support, AI adoption improve agility. Uh, and Foster alignment between the functions and the business, right? Trying to maintain the benefits of scale efficiency transferring back.
[00:16:30] Practices as quickly as possible with the um with the desire for local responsiveness.
[00:16:36] Okay, so this we've talked about organization, I want to shift a little bit back to spending and how organizations are allocating their Capital spend. Um, 1 of the questions that we asked, was, how are organizations allocating the resources across different objective categories, right? So you can see here across our all of our respondents, the average organization said that, uh, they're spending less than half of their DNA spend um and activities right? Uh, that they consider to be in a categories of running the business, right? These are the types of spending required to keep current systems and capabilities up and running. Providing ongoing support and maintenance slightly more than half is devoted to either.
[00:17:15] They're growing the business. This could be resources that support expansion of existing revenue streams or transforming the business, right things? That possibly transform operations of the business, or support new revenue streams. Um, uh, altogether as you can imagine, uh, you can imagine where a lot of this spend might be going. So, I want to show you some additional information that breaks this out, just a little bit more in here. We're shifting from spending to to Staffing. But when we asked respondents, about allocating staff management activities to these sort of emerging activities, when you're looking at it through this lens, you can see that about 40% of Staff time and bodies are being allocated to core DNA management activities, what are 50%
[00:18:00] % of Staff time is allocated to some form of AI support with 40% being allocated to supporting the technology itself and some sort of additional AI related support. Not surprising, most DNA staff are spending time, supporting AI in 1 form or another right. However, we do have a little bit of a word of caution about this and that is we tend to see uh, when we look at the organizations that have the best outcomes. Um, you know, we tend to see that more organizations are sort of over investing in tools relative to the Investments. Uh that we know actually enable AI success. So a lot of organizations are over investing in tools and platforms, right? And they're under investing in the foundational elements, right? Such as data management governance and
[00:18:45] Talent that is very, uh, a difficult challenge. We know a lot of organizations face which because it's the tools that are the flashy thing, and that's the thing that's getting investment. But we all know it's actually, the underlying capabilities are going to enable us to get value, uh, from those tools. So, but we are seeing that reflected, um, in this data set,
[00:19:02] Um, so, all right. That is what's happening with the key results from the budget and efficiency Benchmark. Hopefully, you got a flavor, uh, some of the different insights that you can get, uh, from The Benchmark and, um, helping you answer that all important question. And my normal right when it comes to, uh, DNA spending. Uh, but of course, we've just been talking about benchmarking.
[00:19:30] Budgeting and Staffing and, and, and spending, right? Which is an admittedly limited way to assess any organization. Uh there are times when this uh framework is particularly useful like budgeting season, right? But there are other times where you want to, you know, compare your organization or assess your organization in other ways. And I thought it would be useful to end on just talking about the budget and efficiency Benchmark in the, in the ecosystem of other ways that you can assess organizational performance at partner because we've actually expanded quite a bit, um, uh, this uh, this toolkit. We have, of course, been talking about the budget and efficiency benchmarking on the left, right? Um, but as I said, more than 1 way to calibrate organizational performance, right? Um, uh, the another another way.
[00:20:15] Is to look at the maturity and assess the maturity of your management practices and the data and analytics. Score maturity model is a separate, uh, tool that helps you. Look at management maturity in, uh, so right now there's over 8, different categories, 30 different, individual, um, sort of practice areas, but these are things like the practices that you have around data governance and data management. And each of these categories allow you to set your own practices against the Gartner defined best practices. And then prioritize what are the most important gaps for your organization? Um, but the last 2 on this slide are new. Um, first is the DNA business value Benchmark, while the budget and efficiency Benchmark measures essentially inputs, right. What are you
[00:21:00] Depending on Staffing and Technology, right? The business value metrics measure outcomes, right? So results. Right. They are less business outcomes themselves, right? And they're more about, you know, things like corporate as opposed to like, you know, impact on corporate revenues. And they're they what you, what they allow is, sort of broad comparability of business, functional business relevant, DNA functional performance measure. So for instance, data accuracy, but specifically for master data, in other words, your organization's, most important data. And you can use this as a dashboard to then track your performance in these categories, but then also, uh, compared against peers, right? Um, we're actually launching with 8, different business, value, metrics to begin with, but all these metrics are defined in detail so that they're simple enough to capture
[00:21:45] And a benchmark against other organizations.
[00:21:48] But then lastly uh, another brand new 1, which is what we call the DNA 360. This is 1 of the most important ways to measure the effectiveness of your DNA function um and it's Through The Eyes of your customer, right? Your internal customers. So just as you might get a during performance review time, there might be your manager might deploy a 360 review, ask for your peers feedback. Um, we've actually created a a a survey that is for the customers of DNA asking about their perceptions of how uh, the DNA per function function is serving them. Um, the very interesting part is there's also a self assessment portion as well, so you can identify where perceptions of DNA functions performance aligned with the DNA Zone teams. Uh,
[00:22:30] Ception. But it allows you just like a 360 performance. Get a more holistic view of the performance of your DNA function.
[00:22:36] So, all right. A lot thrown at you. Um I'm going to wrap it up. Uh there we got a few minutes uh early. But I want to thank you for uh, for being here today. I'm happy to stay for a few uh, minutes and answer more questions but um uh, you know, we recognize that benchmarking is 1 of the things that you um uh have frequently Asked Gartner to help with. We've tried to offer a sort of portfolio of different approaches and we've invested a lot in those ways to help you with that calibration. Um but um hopefully this will will put all of those uh pieces in context. So with that, I'll wrap up, thank you very much.
