[00:00:04] Hi everyone. And uh,
[00:00:06] Welcome today. And I know this is the the first session of the day. So I really appreciate you being here to hear about digital sovereignty and, um, a bit about the, the kind of fast-paced environment that we're, we're currently in. And for me, I'm a big football fan. I'm a big Arsenal fan. I'm still very, very, um, nervous after yesterday's results that just West Ham just a few few miles away and this season specifically, I've been thinking a lot about how the fast-paced environment of a football season or a football matches, a a bit like the current geopolitical environment that we're we're seeing at the moment and you know, cdao your CIO colleagues, your other
[00:00:45] Technology Executives, Your Role is in many ways, a bit like that of a a football coach or part of the coaching team in that. You're trying to manage the risk within your own teams. Trying to concede as few goals as possible and make sure you can set your your teams up for success.
[00:01:02] But in the current very turbulent geopolitical environment that we're in, we know that we've considered maybe things around, say our data sovereignty, to an extent, we thought about maybe how secure that data is. Maybe our control data sets are our sensitive data sets, but I think a lot less concern has been given to broader concerns around sovereignty. So
[00:01:26] in a way we we think about say the operational side or the
[00:01:30] Full technical autonomy that we have do we really know where we stand? Have we really thought about say, if we go back to our football analogy, how the whole team needs to be set up to success.
[00:01:42] Or for success, in order that we can have successful season.
[00:01:47] And we know that when we think about all of this, it's very easy to think. Okay. Well, is this about just Theory theoretical risks? Well, know, at the moment we've seen that sovereignty is having an impact. It's had an impact in the past and it's having an impact at the moment.
[00:02:02] so, if we think back to 2019, so Adobe who withdrew access to its Photoshop Suite in Venezuela, as part of the original tariffs that the Trump Administration, the first Trump Administration placed on
[00:02:15] Country.
[00:02:17] if you think about,
[00:02:18] 2022. The Amsterdam Trade Bank.
[00:02:22] Dutch authorities were trying to wind up a a Russian owned bank were prevented from doing. So for a period of time because they couldn't get access to data, that was held in their cloud service provider.
[00:02:35] Police Scotland here in the UK. So we saw data that should have stayed within the boundary of the UK actually for processing left. The confines of the UK security data again shouldn't have happened but happened without the knowledge of police Scotland at the time.
[00:02:52] in Ukraine maxar now vanore, um, they actually had to to pause intelligence sharing with the Ukrainian
[00:03:00] Armed Forces because of a general, pause on the intelligence sharing by the current Trump Administration, which meant that some commercially available satellite imagery that the Ukrainian armed forces were using a vital to their operations were temporarily disrupted.
[00:03:15] And 1 that you probably have heard of which relates to the ICC, the international criminal court in the hike. They found that after some of their individuals were sanctioned, their Chief prosecutor and several other prosecutors there, they were unable to get access to their Cloud productivity software, basically, overnight. And you think about how disrupted that would be if you couldn't get access to, you know, your emails tomorrow.
[00:03:41] And bringing it back to data.
[00:03:43] In the French.
[00:03:45] Parliament earlier this earlier. Last year, the like cloud service provider was forced to admit under oath, that data that sits in their data centers in Europe. They would not necessarily prevent the US from getting access to that if they face the court order and they said that under oath
[00:04:02] So I think what this all illustrates is just across these examples and there are many more, is that when vendors are pressed, when events are turning rapidly, they will often choose their own legal compliance in their own countries over.
[00:04:17] Legal compliance and continuity for yourselves.
[00:04:21] And that's a a major problem um that all public sector organizations and non-public sector organizations also are facing at the moment.
[00:04:30] so,
[00:04:32] To have a, a, a, a sort of small holistic, view of of risk, and of sovereignty is really vital to set your teams up to win, to make sure that, as you effectively, like coaching staff in your own teams, you've got to think more holistically and broader. It's not just about the goalkeeper. It's not just about Defenders. It's about getting the whole team involved. In pressing, the opposition setting yourselves up to win, being more aggressive and and on the front foot to get control of your own digital Destiny. Effectively.
[00:05:03] So to do this there, you're going to need a plan and that plan has to address 2 key elements.
[00:05:10] So firstly, we need to think about expanding what we mean by sovereignty.
[00:05:15] And secondly we need to then once we've done that establish, what the specific priorities and risks are for us what the potential trade-offs are and what we can ultimately do and suggest to our key stakeholders and Executives to try to mitigate the worst of those risks.
[00:05:34] So thinking back to that football analogy for a second, you know, again it takes more than just a goalkeeper or a good pair of Center halves to to make a great defense. So we need to be thinking about all of the players on the pitch. And to do this we need to think about a broader view of sovereignty. So at Gartner we Define sovereignty as this the ability to take a decision without the agreement or permission of others and the ability to be able to enact that decision now and maintain the capacity.
[00:06:00] To enact that decision into the future.
[00:06:03] The problem is that for many of us for many years, we've tended to think about data sovereignty. We send you to think about where our data is, where it's, um, how access to that data is being managed where our data residency, um, issues are. But actually, when we think about it, it's this operational element, which is the real issue that's coming to the 4 in, in recent years that we outlined in the sum of those examples. So where are those Services operated who ultimately has the potential to cut those services off for us, the kind of dreaded kill switch that we've heard heard the examples of and, and I've heard a lot of fear around
[00:06:40] It goes a bit broader than that though. So even if we were to address that how
[00:06:45] Autonomous, would we actually be, if say, some of our key Services were cut off overnight, would we even be able to run and continue to deliver public services in the way that we need to?
[00:06:56] And you might think okay well to deal with that we can think about things like Sovereign clouds or we can think about things like industry, Cloud platforms, aren't these potentially going to be enough to deal with some of the vulnerabilities that we might have.
[00:07:10] Well, to an extent. Yes, Sovereign Cloud can certainly help at the infrastructure layer can help with the platform layer but it isn't necessarily going to make the solutions that are running in those clouds any more Sovereign. If we're relying on a vendor, again that comes from a from a from a foreign provider and the same industry Cloud platforms, they may well be very t.
[00:07:30] And set up for governments and and government use. But they will not necessarily address any of the the infrastructure concerns that we have on the platform concerns that we have. So again, these are incomplete solutions for trying to think about sovereignty.
[00:07:44] and it's not just if we think about,
[00:07:46] The cloud elements as well. This is something that we have to think about across the breadth of our technology Stacks. So of course, it affects our, our information systems, our ARP are social Care Systems our crms
[00:07:59] But it also affects our digital workplace tools. We've already mentioned about productivity software, office software collaboration tools.
[00:08:07] But what about our digital Service delivery side, our mobile applications, our chat Bots that we use increasingly within our own Enterprise systems.
[00:08:15] For interacting with citizens, identity payments. All these foundational elements as well.
[00:08:21] And increasingly within our AI stack as well. So our AI assistants that are becoming ever more integral to the Future that we envisage for interacting with with citizens. And what about the models? That underpin those
[00:08:37] And we have to think also about underneath all of that, the networking infrastructure, the human capital and physical assets as well sovereignty. Concerns can appear at any element of this depth and breadth of our our technology stacks.
[00:08:52] So, we need to think very broadly and deeply about where the potential risks might lie.
[00:08:57] so, 1 key takeaway from this just first initial
[00:09:00] Section expanding your definition of sovereignty and making sure that the stakeholders in your organization, your key Executives also, have an expanded view on sovereignty, is really foundational to be able to know where your risks are and being able to actually do something about it without it. You risk being very narrow in focus and thinking about just a very small slice of risk. So maybe thinking just about cloud or just about data sovereignty. So again, it's a bit like that manager thinking, you know, just about their goalkeeper or their Defenders know the defense is the whole team working together.
[00:09:36] So now we've expanded what the organization thinks about when it comes to to digital sovereignty. So we also now need to think about honing in a bit more on.
[00:09:45] Our individual vulnerabilities lie. So where on the pitch, are we being outplayed? What new tactics or players might we need to help to to mitigate that.
[00:09:54] So to do this, we need to establish the specific risks. We need to prioritize them, we need to think about the trade-offs involved. There are always trade-offs involved with dealing with sovereignty, and we need to be able to think about how we effectively communicate that to decision makers, in a way that they can understand. And a way that we can put forth, some some tips and some ideas about how we might try to mitigate it.
[00:10:15] And there are 4 steps to doing this.
[00:10:18] First Step we've already done. We've already expanded on our idea of sovereignty, we thought about the depth and breadth of the steps that we thought about data operational sovereignty for technology autonomy what matters most to us.
[00:10:30] So we think about the specific risks now and we can start to think about crafting, the sort of specific risk statements that are that are suitable for us by looking at something like tapestry. Now, tapestry is just 1 framework. It's 1 approach, it's 1 that I really like whether you're trying to think about the sort of the full holistic, picture of where risks might lie. And for those of you who, who aren't aware of tapestry, this is where we're looking to try to look at the, the technological, the political, the economics, social trust, and ethical Regulatory and environmental aspects, where, again, any of these areas are where risks to sovereignty could be, could be lying.
[00:11:08] So on the the technology side 1 example that we might want to think about if we're thinking of ourselves almost like managers in a football team.
[00:11:15] Well, what about locking with our hyperscale cloud service providers? And do we have the ability to migrate data and workloads out when we need to? So this might mean if we're thinking about this that we have to think about.
[00:11:27] Looking at less proprietary services and software more about Open Standards. Open data potentially bringing its own risks. And again,
[00:11:35] involving quite key trade-offs.
[00:11:39] On the political side and I think this is a really, really important 1 because again, there could be some kind of legal order, so the imposition of sanctions which would potentially mean that the you are at risk of termination from us-based services. And we've seen some some examples of this coming up in things like contracts and and, and
[00:12:00] Terms of conditions with with core both the US and non us, technology providers. So many even those marked as sovereign
[00:12:07] Will have within their contracts, are the obligation for customers to Warrant that they are not a sanctioned entity or in any other way trade restricted, including in places like the US. So, if there was some kind of geopolitical incident or spat, it could mean that if these Clauses were in your terms and conditions in your contracts, you could be at risk now.
[00:12:31] But we've also got economic risk factors, as well. So, we thinking a lot as our kind of manager or a football coach or, you know, our kind of um, technology executive analogy there.
[00:12:42] A lot of the current wave of economic protection.
[00:12:45] Actionism. So you're thinking about inflation, we're thinking about the current geopolitical climate, what's happening with with Iran. And all of these are going to have an impact and are having an impact on technology costs that are being passed on to to to us. And this is especially concerning for for for say our our manager example because they when they're assessing their current licensing requirements. Through their Enterprise Agreements are seeing these costs being passed on to them. I do a lot of calls around areas like GIS and Erp where I'm seeing these sorts of costs being passed on all ultimately or in many cases related to the the the geopolitical environment that we're that we're seeing. So again, that could have an impact on your operating model, you know, will you have individual
[00:13:30] You can have the licenses they need. Will you have to think about redesigning those licenses and and how they are are given out to people?
[00:13:39] On the regulatory side. So we bringing this back a little bit to the the the data sovereignty side that we mentioned at the beginning. Yeah. This is something that many might already be aware of if we have were to have data access issues. Uh, because vendors are are subject to a foreign legal order of some kind.
[00:13:57] So, thinking about this, this puts us in mind of things like the, the US Cloud apps, which can Target any customer data within a US, provider's possession, custody or control regardless of where that data is located. So, you know, for us, for our, our cdio manager example, this
[00:14:15] Mean that the US government could order a a US cloud provider to disclose their their data, even if that's stored in a European data center by a subsidiary.
[00:14:25] So this begs the question, then is a a sovereign cloud from a us-based provider in this current climate ever, really truly sovereign.
[00:14:32] And I would argue, no, because ultimately data residency does not equal data sovereignty.
[00:14:41] So once again if we bring it back to the kind of analogy of our our football coach cdao or technology executive example. So in order to act
[00:14:50] They need to know where best. Now to Target the agency's efforts. They know where the risks are in the broadest sense.
[00:14:57] But where would we need to sign new players.
[00:15:00] What new tactics, might we need to put in place specifically for our needs.
[00:15:06] So there's a few things we can do here. We have to think about 4, key factors to assess the criticality of what are these broader sovereignty? Risks are going to be for us.
[00:15:17] So firstly, we need to think about the likelihood. Um, it's a, it sounds like an obvious 1 but isn't always actually that easy to easy to, to do. So, we need to think about things like key risk, indicators, go out to our organization, speak to people, speak to our service providers, and look at things like, say the percentage of systems that we have dependent that are hosted in a foreign uh, foreign cloud, service provider in a foreign data center. Or if we think about say, the AI side, what's the percentage?
[00:15:45] Of local data that's been used to train. Those models that are used are a suitable for our local jurisdiction. For our local purposes.
[00:15:56] For each identified risk. We also have to think about determining the impact specifically on our agency. So is it going to have an impact on our strategy?
[00:16:06] Will it enable us to be able to innovate as we move forward? Will it have an impact on our data privacy and Security? Will it cause us potential, reputational harm? How serious would that harm be amongst our peers, uh, with the public and most crucially business and, and Mission operational disruptions. So, if we were to face these risks, or these risks were to come to pass, how
[00:16:30] Critical, would it be in terms of disrupting our core services?
[00:16:35] And of course the time frame comes into play here we can't meet all of these challenges at once. So we have to think about the short term, the median term, the long term, where do these risks lie?
[00:16:45] Because ultimately, if we don't know that, then we won't know about our current capacity to be able to manage these risks. Do we have the staff and skills available? If we're thinking about say having to repatriate things to our to our own data centers or thinking about moving to open source Solutions, will we have the infrastructure available to do that? Will we have the staff available? The funding available to do that? Do we have the time to do that?
[00:17:07] If we were looking at say as an example I'll talk about GIS which is an area. I cover a lot of organizations are interested in open source.
[00:17:15] That but are prevented from doing. So, because of the time scales involved, probably 2 to 3 years, to be able to implement that effectively.
[00:17:24] But communication of the risk is also really really important. Because again, ultimately what you'll need to be doing. If you're going through a sort of risk assessment framework like this is to be able to communicate where the the key risks are. So 1 thing I really like is a matrix approach to this. So you can see on the the horizontal axis there, the, the likelihood of risk occurring on the vertical the degree of impact that, that will happen. So what that enables you to do is to be able to say, right for those 4 risks and I'll just use the 4 that we looked at in the tapestry session.
[00:17:55] We can see very clearly where those now fall and can easily use this to communicate with.
[00:18:00] We've put our political Representatives or our other key stakeholders, what we need to be focusing on. So, in this case, the first 3 risks and I'll, I'll go through those in a bit more detail in a moment, but we can also use things like the size of the bubbles to indicate the amount of time. We've got the colors to be able to, determine if we've got um, sufficient capacity to to meet these risks as well.
[00:18:22] But alongside that we have to be able to be more proactive and say, well what can we actually do? What are we suggesting? We should be doing to try to to meet some of those risks.
[00:18:32] So we need to have an action plan, tied to the most critical ones. We can't do everything. So I would always recommend those 3 to 5. Most important things that we can do in the short to medium term.
[00:18:41] and I use some of the 3 examples we have from earlier, so we're talking
[00:18:45] About data access issues. If vendors are subject to a foreign legal order well for our hypothetical organization, we've determined this is the greatest risk for us, but we've also got a key risk around sanctions that 1. I mentioned about the the Drey kill switch, the termination of services potentially
[00:19:02] We've also got a less critical risk but still very crucial 1 around locking with Cloud. Um, foreign cloud service providers.
[00:19:10] So, what should we be asking our leadership to do?
[00:19:13] And I'll go through these in a bit more detail in a moment. But just to summarize on the data side, we can be thinking about encryption in thinking about making sure that our data is encrypted with keys that we hold.
[00:19:25] We can think about our terms and conditions for our our current arrangements. And I think this
[00:19:30] Is if 1 thing I would recommend you take away and do now. If ideally within the next few weeks would be to go and review these contracts that you have with various key providers and look to see if there are any such kill switch Clauses, effectively for 1 of the better term, in those current Arrangements that you have, because if there are then, that's something you should be speaking to them about and, and trying to work out a way to, to get that removed.
[00:19:58] But also, if we're thinking about the risk of locking with with foreign Health hyperscalers, then we also need to be thinking about potential ways that we might be able to look at different types of of cloud providers. So we could okay, maybe move to 1. That isn't the hyperscale
[00:20:15] Based technology. But we might actually say that the Sovereign Cloud solution that exists in the market actually is suitable for us depending on on the workflows, depending on the data. And depending on our needs,
[00:20:26] Now there are other elements as well, we've only picked the first 3 ones here. So tariffs risk of inflation, all of that side, open source um, managing subscription versus Perpetual licenses. And having to think about how we shift those license types, could we make some savings there. That mean that say the risk of things like, tariffs are going to be less of an have less of an impact on us, but that's a bit more long term. So for our example, here, we've left that off.
[00:20:52] So if we think about honing in on some of those areas around data sovereignty and what we can, what we can practically think about doing.
[00:21:01] What's a secure data? Whether it's at rest, or in transit, or in use, we can think about things like external encryption key management. So we can ensure that our data at rest is is secure. We can think about when it's in transit, Hardware security modules, confidential compute and Horicon for securing data in use, additionally, things like asymmetric key encryption can be used to secure communication involving shared and private keys.
[00:21:29] But we also have to think about the policies and guidelines we have in place. How do we guarantee data residency and that includes defining and implementing the sets of policies, that we need those guard rails. That we need to provide Assurance, uh, for data residency within our
[00:21:45] The desired location. So, no, replication or synchronization of data across non-design locations? So what do those policies look like? Have they been updated? Are they in place?
[00:21:57] And finally, in terms of controlling access to data,
[00:22:03] We can use things like our identity and access management tools to manage ultimately who can get access to to Cloud resources. So we can use our governance, processes, Audits and analytics, and intelligence capabilities to ensure data residency coverage. We can also make sure that we're the offerings that we're working with are um enforcing the security controls that we we expect but also making sure we're setting up things like Landing zones that are suitable.
[00:22:30] Suitably set up for the secure data load data and that we that we require from them. So these are things we can do. Now we the things we can explore on the data side but on the Sovereign Cloud side.
[00:22:42] Here we have how we break down, Sovereign Cloud Solutions across the market and we've only got 1 area exposed at the moment but this is where many who are in say. A public Cloud, hyperscale Cloud solution are at the moment. So on the left we have lower sovereignty on the right, greater sovereignty, lower expected functionality on the left. And on, on the higher expected functionality, on the left, I should say and lower on the right, lower scalability. Um, reliability, potentially, as well. So at the moment, if we are using just public, hyperscale Cloud Solutions, we really at best can get very limited.
[00:23:15] Did data sovereignty. So we may well be able to use encryption. We can certainly if we're using a managed service provider we can have um data in data centers in our own locations, we can have our own people potentially there working, but ultimately there are real limits here with how Sovereign we can ever really be. So you may well decide to look towards many of The Sovereign Cloud Solutions on the market at the moment, many of which sit in this in this middle bracket. So hyperscale public Cloud offering that's been isolated by jurisdiction with say a a local subsidiary or a local immunity partner.
[00:23:53] so,
[00:23:54] In region data centers, in country data centers.
[00:23:58] Ultimately will address data sovereignty.
[00:24:00] And with a local immunity partner will address some of those operational concerns as well. Because even if we're in a position where there was a geopolitical incident and we did have a potential cut off with that cloud provider, we could still operate. At least in the the short to medium term long term, there would still be risks. We would still see potential Divergence in those Solutions so still risks around sovereignty, persist
[00:24:26] We may decide that ultimately we want to go further that actually we want to look at a local or Regional cloud based on Commercial hyperscale technology. But that is operated locally or is ideally, not based on our hyperscale technology and is based with a local provider,
[00:24:45] But they were going to be a lot of limits there in the terms of the functionality available that we are not obviously not going to be analogous to say, working with an AWS, or a Microsoft, or, or whoever it may well be suitable to lift and shift some data and workloads into but won't necessarily be able to provide everything that we need. So we need to think about what data and workloads would we think this would be a suitable solution for, but it does give us the 3 things we need it gives us data sovereignty. It gives us operational sovereignty and it means that if we were to be cut off, we could continue to work.
[00:25:19] With those providers and maintain our full autonomy, to an extent.
[00:25:24] So, an effective approach, it has to help your key decision makers to understand.
[00:25:30] Where you're most vulnerable and what ultimately is possible in the future, this isn't just a a short-term game. It's also very much a long-term position because many of the benefits of sovereignty, it's not just about looking at risk. It's also about benefits for our our local areas for our local economies about fostering a local technology ecosystem, local partners that can work with you and can grow and benefit the country more uh uh more generally. And we're seeing a lot of interest in Europe around this the talk around digital public infrastructure, the talk around establishing local providers, that can that we can develop and we can be anchor tenants for
[00:26:09] So for the final time, we go back to our, our hypothetical cdio manager analogy. Um,
[00:26:15] That we were thinking about at the beginning. So as the, the football season continues, we're nearly at the end of the season. Now has been a lot of unexpected events injuries to Star players. Uh, that's put our plans into chaos but
[00:26:28] We're a plan. We have a plan. We are ready. We know what we need to do, if some big geopolitical event was to happen that could put our services at risk.
[00:26:37] So this week if there's a plan of action, I would, I would recommend going towards it would be to firstly, understand? And think about that broader view of sovereignty that we mentioned at the beginning, but also think about what the executives, what your your key colleagues, what their views are as well to make sure that uh you know how much you might need to try to to sort of influence.
[00:27:00] Them to to take that broader View.
[00:27:04] We also need to think about, um, going forward in the next, well. Next week to think about the, um, gaps, that might be there by using something like this. We can use that risk. Assessment framework. We've got resources, just like this that we can use to present to our colleagues, our key stakeholders on what we need to do, to identify those particular key risks across our organization. This comes from a risk assessment framework, it's live on gardener.com. You can use this today if you wanted to go through and, and, and to do this assessment in house,
[00:27:38] In the next 90 days, we can think about leading a more in-depth sovereignty risk assessment framework. So we think about
[00:27:45] Evaluating the criticality of the risks that we've identified and we pick those 3 or 5 that we can, we think are most important for us to act on. Now again, it might be locking with a cloud service provider. It might be that risk of the, um, kill switch Clauses, that could be in many of our providers contracts.
[00:28:03] And then long term, we need to think about the potential impact that this might have on our operating model. So with some of those long-term risks things like the economic impact of things like licenses, do we need to think about redesigning how we deliver Services, who gets what license and think about how ultimately we going to embed sovereignty into our strategic planning going forward.
[00:28:30] So again as you go away, as you as coaches managers in your own teams, go away and and think about the kind of fast moving world that we're in you hopefully by taking this this sort of approach, we'll be able to be resilient and get control of your own digital Destiny as you as you move forward. So thank you.