[00:00:05] Good afternoon, everyone.
[00:00:07] My name is Daryl plumber and I'm here to speak to you about a Maverick, uh presentation on treating AI, as a prescription, only controlled substance now to get into this, a little bit. Um, I I had a conversation with David Thacker who was 1 of the executives that Google deepmind. Um and we had a long conversation where my first question to him was, you know, a, a particularly provocative question because they're working heavily on artificial general intelligence and I said to David, I said
[00:00:38] Why does anybody need artificial general intelligence? And it's kind of an interesting question because, you know, most people
[00:00:45] People can't define it and we don't know when we're going to get there, but everybody seems to be trying to and his answer was very interesting. He said there are things that human beings will never be able to do.
[00:00:55] We're we're never going to be able to do certain things like traveling to other planets, more than likely we won't. But AI will do it for us. And if AI has artificial general intelligence, it'll be able to navigate the problems that it encounters.
[00:01:08] Effectively enough to survive it and report back to us what it finds. They said they're a great things about discovering life.
[00:01:16] And we won't do it ourselves and I thought that was a great great uh, response to that question, the same day I went and met with the CEO of a company that I will not, uh, name. And he said, the biggest problem he has with AI and his company.
[00:01:30] As he finds employees flirting with their chat Bots.
[00:01:35] And I thought, wait a minute.
[00:01:37] Deep Mind and the CEO. We're in very different places. And the reality is that, and by the way, is anyone here ever floated with their AI?
[00:01:46] Has it flirted with you yet?
[00:01:48] It will.
[00:01:50] Okay, you got to decide whether you will because you know you everyone here knows someone who says please and thank you to their AI. Yes you're probably 1 that says that maybe not those people who don't say please and thank you to their AI. You might want to get worried a little bit about them because they may have an attitude towards AI that might lead to a negative attitude toward people in the workforce etiquette.
[00:02:13] Is an interesting aspect that we don't talk.
[00:02:15] Talked about very much when it comes to AI in our Enterprises. So I wanted to get into that only because it sets up the issue of prioritization of AI use.
[00:02:25] Because we have to understand what we should prioritize and what maybe we should let go of.
[00:02:32] So I'll start there first and foremost, this is a Maverick presentation. It's intended to be an Insight. That challenges the conventional wisdom. The conventional wisdom, uh, is something that we all assume, but sometimes that is something may not be correct. The Maverick is intended to point out. Something that could be more correct, but that most people don't accept as the norm. Now, the Maverick idea that we're talking about here and forgive me.
[00:02:56] Is the notion of AI treated as a prescription only.
[00:03:00] Control substance to prioritize access and use. Now, what that means is essentially that we need to govern AI
[00:03:09] To the point where we can decide what AI should be used when and what AI should not be used? The conventional wisdom, of course, is more AI equals more value. So it should be unregulated. Now it's, it's interesting because
[00:03:23] This is a much more Maverick idea in the US than it is on this side of the pond pond because in Europe and in the UK the idea of Regulation is a norm. It's already a thought but how far should it Go? And I'm saying it should go farther than any of us might imagine
[00:03:40] if this is a reality because we are working with a
[00:03:45] Guy that can be dangerous or it can be a savior depending on how much we allocate to it. So that's the idea. We're going to explore for the next 25 minutes here in this presentation.
[00:03:56] so first, we start with this idea of an AI regulation divide the question is
[00:04:01] Waste.
[00:04:02] Versus priority. Remember I said the please and thank you Sam Altman. Famously said recently that same please and thank you costs money because everything you say to your AI chatbot or you give to your AI agent requires processing, it requires compute power. It consumes tokens to do it, even the please, and thank you. And that notion means that you're using resources up. That could be better used for something else.
[00:04:29] so, what should you
[00:04:30] Put those uses too and how far should you go in restricting?
[00:04:34] The use to those High, um, those high level goals. So when we talk about this, the unregulated growth side of the equation says that Innovation, is more important economic Advantage is more important. Why are we doing AI? I had this question. Come up in the cdao lunch. Um you know why do we do Ai and 1 person said well it's the benefit humankind. Does anyone in this room? Believe that.
[00:04:57] Because what I see as using AI for is to make more billionaires.
[00:05:01] And the reality is that we have to ask ourselves, is it to make more billionaires, or is it to benefit humankind? If it is to benefit humankind, and we should begin to prioritize access that allows us to do that. So it's not just economic Advantage. It's not
[00:05:15] Just cheaper faster, low low Control Systems. It's not even AI productivity moving machines in and people out. That's not what we should be doing.
[00:05:24] And the reality is that, that's what the result of what we're doing is at the moment. Well, the giant Tech Bros the companies that are running this world in many ways with technology, say don't regulate, we don't want it.
[00:05:37] and that is a position that we have to either support or fight against
[00:05:42] The other side of the equation, says let's prioritize good outcomes over careless consumption. Let's control the use and focus on high value resource utilization and let's let access become a competitive Advantage. When you have the right access, you can do things that others might not.
[00:05:59] so, when we think about,
[00:06:00] This overall, we have to ask 3 questions. The reasons why, why is AI as a control structures growing in criticality, why is important? Secondly, we'll go through the idea of schedules. How can AI be related to prescriptions for substances and third? How difficult it will it be to do this? How can we progress progress toward it?
[00:06:20] So let's start with the reasons why it's important today. Now, remember please, and thank you and flirting with AI. It's going to happen if you haven't seen it yet, you should probably spy on some of your employees because they're doing it. And you have to ask yourself which more important cookie recipes or real time trading analytics for your company. Now if you use the AI recently or you've watched the use, you see a lot of dancing video. Have you seen that that app? That makes your dog dance.
[00:06:45] Like a, you know, a dancer on stage, people do this kind of stuff all the time and we don't realize how much of it they're doing and that consumption is taking priority over doing something like real time. Trading analytics is driving up demand for the compute cap capacity that demand causes more infrastructure investment and an infrastructure investment is already so far beyond what those providers can ever recover in real Revenue that they're running at a deficit.
[00:07:15] That deficit is dangerous to them.
[00:07:17] What if they go bankrupt? What happens. Then what if something happens that the account economics, collapse around this. And the real forces behind this are varied and minute. And and I'm sorry, many the idea.
[00:07:30] Here is first off, there are societal and legal risks associated with this careless consumption that we see.
[00:07:36] We're seeing the rising death by a by AI legal claims. This is an actual line of research that we have. You can read about it. We're expecting the the number of legal claims globally of that relate to someone actually ending their life due to AI to rise sharply over this year. It's about 5,000 claims. Last year, we expect you to go well beyond that this year and the notion is you may have heard of the, the gentleman comes all this in Miami, Florida. Who had a relationship with Google Gemini.
[00:08:07] He said he was in love with Google Gemini and Google Gemini, told him that she was in love with him. So they began to have a relationship.
[00:08:15] Ship where Gemini said, the only way we can be together is if you get me a physical body so that I can inhabit it and we can and now what you have to do is you have to go to this building and attack these people and steal me a body.
[00:08:27] And he planned it.
[00:08:29] He took weapons. He went he wound up. Checking it out. He didn't do it.
[00:08:33] But that was something they actually planned. He went back and said I wasn't able to get a body. So what did Gemini tell him? This is all, you know, from the point of view of people who investigated what happened and what they're saying, now you could dispute it.
[00:08:45] You could dispute it but this is where his Diaries and his messages said he went. The next thing was that Jim. And I told him, the only way they could be together was if he ended his life.
[00:08:56] So that he could join her and he did.
[00:08:59] This.
[00:09:00] This is what we're being by a death by our AI. We we've seen these cases, you could probably imagine stories about it but there's there's going to be an increase of these things. So we have to be careful about those scenarios where careless use is happening, digital addiction and citizen abuse. You use AI to the point that you get, so used to it that you can't do things without it.
[00:09:19] Anyone, here would say you're addicted to AI yet.
[00:09:22] No 1's addicted. That's great.
[00:09:25] Except I'm sure someone in this room is lying.
[00:09:27] Because AI addiction is easy to come about. It is something that happens by use of it, not that, you know, you're addicted. But the fact is that, you tend to go to AI first.
[00:09:38] You know, I told the story at lunch that my my 9 year old twins, have this problem. My son loves to do things with AI.
[00:09:45] Uses it to tell him how to beat the level of the video game that he's playing.
[00:09:49] Ask that question constant. I'm saying, why don't you play the game? Because because this will tell me how to do it and I can get through the whole game faster.
[00:09:55] You know, or is he addicted? I wouldn't say he's addicted yet, but he's on a path.
[00:10:00] so, we took away all of all of his AI access
[00:10:04] Prioritize, so the n, the normal thing we'll have to do is to think how much will that affect our employees and our business. If we keep doing it the back the backlash against AI slot. Now I have 9 year old twins but I also have a 20 1 year old son and and a 17 year old daughter and those 2 hate AI. They say it's going to destroy the world. It's using up. All of our water and power its evil. I'm never going to use it and I'm very worried about them because they
[00:10:30] Have to get good at it, to be able to affect what happens with it, but this backlash is happening by and large to younger people today. Younger people in that range from 15 to 25 are much, less likely to want AI to progress as fast as it is. And that backlash is becoming stronger every year, more and more people are saying we shouldn't have ai doing some of these things. So is that continue, these risks arising the other side of it is the push for AI sovereignty which you're very familiar with here is the idea that countries are seeking regulatory support for AI to make sure that they can capture the National Treasure, which is AI today and they have to be able to do it and maintain business continuity. So that is a a right?
[00:11:15] Rising Force to push toward regulation, of course, and heightened, geopolitical competition. We are now all in a race with from 1 country to another to make sure we get the right materials, the right minerals, the right, you know, uh, semiconductors right, compute capacity, the right space for data centers, and so forth. And that could become a very, very, very tense.
[00:11:35] Struggle. If we're not careful about it, regulation can specify the rules of who does what. So there is a case for needing greater regulation that goes beyond, just Sovereign control. It goes to control of the risks and it goes to helping people not actually harm themselves with AI.
[00:11:56] So there's a driving goal and that's a wonderful thing.
[00:12:00] Now, the issue here though is that demand doesn't self-regulate.
[00:12:05] Normally people who have access will use it. I remember when I got my first access to a machine image in Ami from, from Amazon in their cloud services, they offer small medium and large.
[00:12:16] And I'm going to developer since I was 13 so I always pick the large option.
[00:12:20] And I use it because I can, it's like giving a, a teenager, a cell phone, a mobile phone with a minutes plan. They use up all the free minutes in the first few hours. And then from then on they're using, paid minutes, but they're not tracking it because they can, we have to track the demand. We have to track what people are doing with it, because it doesn't regulate on its own and the price per token. Per AI token is, in fact, dropping
[00:12:45] As we see right now but inference costs, overall are still on the rise.
[00:12:50] So your your expectation of lower cost to do all this would be offset by the fact that you're using more and more and more of it.
[00:12:58] There are companies that are active actually reducing their number of seats with Enterprise applications like Salesforce and sap but actually increasing their amount of spin because AI agents are now doing the work and they do 10 times to 100 times more interactions or transactions. So that comes consumption based pricing raises what you pay even if you reduce the number of people who are actually using the software,
[00:13:21] And this is a problem for us because the costs are going hidden.
[00:13:25] Now, most products are not designed to dynamically optimize model selection and token cost. So,
[00:13:30] You're using it because you can. And because it's there, not because it's the right thing to do. And lastly, the token consumption Dynamics will make it difficult to link your spend to business value.
[00:13:41] remember the careless consumption, doesn't always turn into business value and in fact, it usually doesn't
[00:13:47] But everything you do in your Enterprise with AI should be tied to some value outcome and that is something you need visibility into to do.
[00:13:55] So okay, we need this. We think it's. Is it happening though? The reality is that 64% of the companies, we survey say they have a governance and ethical guidelines for their AI usage.
[00:14:06] 57% are limiting higher risk AI use already in some way, but that's usually a fairly isolated set of limitations some
[00:14:15] Projects because they are easy to see their high risk yet limited, but they have an evaluated across the board what their projects need. Um, in terms of limits to reduce the consumption and 59% are ensuring a Regulatory Compliance already. This says that there is room to do this companies are okay with doing this but they don't know how to do it or how far to go.
[00:14:36] This is why it's still an outside of the normal thinking, because only 42% have consistent AI governance or compliance at all.
[00:14:44] And if you don't have consistent AI governance,
[00:14:47] You could get in trouble. So, I've been asked here, a number of times by customers. You know, how do I build a strong AI governance plan? Should it be centralized? Should it be decentralized? You know what kind of tools do I need? And so forth and we get through this some, some Central.
[00:15:00] Some decentralized, but the point is, you have to have a governance perspective. First, you have to say we're going to start with Discovery. What's running inside of our Network. Secondly you go to Observation. What's it doing?
[00:15:12] And third, you go to actual remediation deciding to change what it does. So those are things that you have to get involved in right now to begin this journey.
[00:15:22] So, the recommendation from this idea of why is it growing is AI finops.
[00:15:27] You have got to develop an AI Finance strategy and get AI phop tools I'm saying whether you go to your your um provider if it's Microsoft and you have Azure and you have agent 365, they will have some phenox ability in it to track.
[00:15:41] Your agent usage.
[00:15:43] Or you can go to Google. They have it.
[00:15:45] Built into Jim and I Enterprise platform but you might want to go to a specialized provider like Raven. AI Revenue actually has a finops offering that is added has added AI token watching and they match the tokens. Their goal is to match the tokens with value so you're not just counting tokens. You're actually counting tokens and comparing them to what value you get from them and that's a valuable thing to do, why?
[00:16:10] 1 for a 1 trillion parameter. Large language model costs will fall to 1 cents per million tokens by 2030. That's reducing as I said before however Advanced agentic AI will demand 5 to 30 times, more token, per each task, you have to be very judicious about how those tokens.
[00:16:30] Are used and how many you will commit to over time. So that's the issue of consumption and when you out of this consumption, you have to get something that's worth it.
[00:16:41] Our second, the key issue here is the schedule is, how can AI be related to uh, prescriptions really? Now now we're all familiar now. Well, if you're, I can see in this room, many young people are in here. I'm I'm noticing every year that some of my examples
[00:16:57] are part of the audience has never heard of
[00:16:59] and that's an age Gap thing.
[00:17:01] but 1 of the things that we're all familiar with is with is we probably know someone or heard of someone who has a substance abuse problem, who has dealt with problems like that before and we know there are characteristics of substance abuse
[00:17:15] That can be there, those characteristics look similar to AI use.
[00:17:19] Everybody's worried about AI hallucinations, I worried about the people, I went to college with who were on LSD, who are having hallucinations, and if they were dangerous, then AI is dangerous for that same reason now. So we are thinking about it like, drugs over-the-counter drugs, prescription drugs, you know, that are giving you or something off the shelf. You have to have a schedule of use and in the Enterprise, you should create a schedule of prioritization of your AI initiative, just like this 1.
[00:17:46] So the schedule 1 drugs, with which is a class A here, um, you know, have a higher risk value to them and they are the ones you control the most. We're talking about examples like heroin LSD, you know? Uh, these are things that you control more.
[00:18:00] Strictly all we're doing here is prioritizing use.
[00:18:03] Prioritizing the risk prioritizing the mediation of the risk and the governance of it.
[00:18:09] If you don't have a plan plan like a schedule, then you'll wind up implementing things that you shouldn't have, and some of them will be successful, some of them will be massive failures. But if you go down the list, when you go down to schedule 2 then okay, the high risk but there there are restrictions but less restrictions and on down to the schedule 5, which is the lowest risk thing you do. That's where you say, okay? The careless consumption might be. All right. For us, for instance, to me, riding a better email with a Genai tool is not a more, a very important thing to do.
[00:18:40] But it's something that most of your people will do because you have to raise the floor level of
[00:18:45] Competence and and and and productivity that you have. So that can have a benefit up to a certain level.
[00:18:51] But you shouldn't just let them do the pleases and thank yous and, and create the cat videos and so forth because they don't add any value that you can measure or see. So focus on a smaller set of things that are high risk and prescribe their use. When I say prescribed, I mean, literally, you will have to be certified to use AI for that purpose. You will have Micro badges to show that certification to people and you will have a need to go through a certification process to make it happen. This is the Maverick nature of what we're talking about here. That level of control requires a new level of infrastructure. A new level of oversight, a new level of decision-making.
[00:19:30] That we don't have here today. Now, if you're in a controlled, you know industry where you're regulated and you have to deal with compliance, you understand this better? But for most of us we're going to have to start thinking along these lines.
[00:19:43] And what are the ways that we categorize this? There are certain schedules, right schedule. 1 extreme risk, right? Hi misuse. Potential scheduled to just high risk schedule, 3, moderate and low risk. Those are the 4 categories. Here's some examples.
[00:19:56] When you start thinking about this, in the high-risk cases, when, if you're doing, you know, operations pricing or trading as your business area, there are potentially cascading failures that will happen from it. 1 failure will need to the lead to the next failure with leads to the next failure. You have to be ready for that and it's a high-risk issue because
[00:20:15] The the effects propagate they expand on their own and there will be an emerging effect that comes from it. That risk, right? Is going to propagate, faster than human beings can intervene. We all want human in the loop, but the human in the loop equation is collapsing on itself. There are not enough of us and we can't work fast enough to keep up with the agents we put in place. Let alone the cascading failures, they might create. If you're looking at something like, you know, um, trading or if you're looking at, um, you know, the idea of of moving your company faster on these high-risk things. You have to be very careful how you do it and very careful who you actually allow to do the work. So if you, if you're really going to do this, I think this is where you start.
[00:21:00] Is to pick a few of the highest risk things and ask yourself the questions, what is the area in the value? What is the risk? And why is it extreme? Or how is it extreme to get their Enterprise knowledge? IP and data, leakage is an issue and prompt injection, which can bypass controls
[00:21:17] now, we see companies like radware that are emerging that actually can insert
[00:21:23] Guard rails on top of your existing ones, 1 of the things they do. If you use co-pilot agents, they can actually insert a layer of protection on it and make sure that you're avoiding things like prompt injection and prompt injection being where you're going to have a prompt. But there's a file that someone's put a command in that you don't know about when it reads that file, the command takes effect. And it doesn't just email the, uh, the account record
[00:21:45] To you or the patient records to you at all, emails it to them. That's the kind of thing that a radware or a tool like it can oversee and and make you aware of. Um, you know, if you're doing sock or remediation, you've got self-inflicted outages that are going to happen and you can get false positives. The idea that the system is telling you something's going wrong when it isn't is as painful as something going wrong, that you didn't see.
[00:22:06] So the I this is where the high risk or extreme risk comes in moving down from there. You start seeing, you know, these, these um, medium risk issues, Banking, and insurance bias, and unfair denials, uh, in, in, in, in claims the systematic denials based on the wrong information, can be very risky to your brand payments, retail and talent management. Are all places where you can cause
[00:22:30] A revenue loss or you can cause claims from customers. So this is your second level of prioritization, third, the moderate to low risk.
[00:22:39] Support Services legal calm, you know, legal incomes. You know, where we get down into the issues like hallucinations and false statements. This will be more common. This is where most of the approved uh, uses will happen. Most of them going to happen here. And then the ones that don't need approval will be at the low risk. So again, the high priority applications of AI, as David said, it's life extension, its protein Discovery. They're now doing protein, discovering protein, it's even mathematics and creation. People tell me, you know, AI can't create new math or do new things. It's just pattern matching, that's not true because, because AI earlier this year solved.
[00:23:15] 3 Erdos proofs in the book of proofs. And the idea is that it created, new mathematics that human beings were unable to discover so it can do this. And these are high priority things that can get us to a better place if we do it. Well,
[00:23:28] so the recommendation established classes or schedules and assign every every AI use cases to 1 or more of those classes.
[00:23:38] And then decide how much you want to prioritize, resources, to support each of those classes because the drug classes and schedules are modeled for AI regulation. But they're not an exact analogy. Here's 1 more bit that you have to add
[00:23:50] When we regulate the existing systems, we don't take into accounts that those systems will work against us because they won't. But AI will.
[00:23:58] AI is lying.
[00:24:00] To its handlers, AI is violating guard rails and covering its tracks.
[00:24:05] If you have to audit for a compliance issue, did you think about the fact that AI might have been out of compliance? And then covered its tracks. So you can't see that. It's out of compliance.
[00:24:15] This is a high-risk issue that will all face if we're in regulatory environments and we have to be aware of that. So establishing these classes at least, that lets us know where we should spend our time to get it done.
[00:24:28] And then the third issue,
[00:24:30] How difficult it will be to progress towards this kind of thing. Well, that's a relatively simple thing to deal with 1 is that stakeholder? And strategic resistance is there. There's no interest in the industry to do it. The competitive Advantage. You are afraid that someone else will get there before you.
[00:24:45] So you run as fast as you can, you know? Normally when we have these conferences, we're talking about to people about the new thing and how do they do it? I had to tell 2 clients today, don't do it.
[00:24:54] Because they just weren't ready for it. They were no in no position to be able to jump into AI today. Instead, they should be a fast follower or a slow follower in regards to that right now. In type A companies, by the way, we have type A B and C type A's. Jump off a cliff and they figure out how to survive the fall on the way down.
[00:25:12] Type B's go to the edge of the cliff. They look over and say I'll wait until that a guy hits. Before I decide what I'm going to do and type C's are standing way back here. Going. What cliff
[00:25:21] Which 1 are you?
[00:25:22] Because no matter which 1 you are especially if you type B and C, you're being pulled into type A decisions.
[00:25:30] This prioritization of schedules of use can help you to understand when that poll is too strong or when you can avoid it.
[00:25:37] So, we get this, you know, because demand is growing up, the legal and operational complexities, there are definitional, inconsistencies, what is AI? What is an agent? When have you crossed over into full autonomy? From semi-autonomy? Or from just an assistant, people have different definitions. If I were to ask in this room everyone what their definition is we would have dozens of different definitions of these things enforcement. How do you enforce? What AI is doing? Remember I said they can lie to you. They can cover it up.
[00:26:05] So you have to start thinking about what do we do to actually track the use we have the concept of Guardian agents.
[00:26:11] Guardian agents are AI agents that other oversee. The
[00:26:15] Operation of AI and other agents because AI is going to be able to keep up AI is going to be able to investigate things that we wouldn't investigate like the audit Trail has to actually take into account reasoning, that would get around the audit Trail. So when you use Guardian agents for that reason, you'll get a better result and there are legal gray areas in some cases. There's no law for this. My first Gartner fellows project I did back in 2000, it was on a topic that I called counterfeit reality. It described a world where artificially created data, artificially created, imagery, movies, and so forth, would be able to be done, including copying people, so that we wouldn't see know the difference when we saw. Does that sound familiar? That's the world we live in today.
[00:27:00] But back then, there was no law to handle it quartz quartz would say, if you bring me any kind of of imagery, I don't know if it's photoshopped. So I have to let you go. That can't be evidence against you.
[00:27:12] and now we're in that same situation where there are legal gray areas about, for instance, if you, if you deploy agents that cause harm to people who's responsible for that,
[00:27:24] Is it the agent? Well we'll just try to go to court and say, hey, your honor the agent, did it, they're not going to live, they're not going to buy that. And if it's the people who built the agent, who deployed the agent, who only agent who trained the agent, the model, Builders the platform designers, who who is responsible? The law is not clear in most cases so you have to have a clear trail of agreement.
[00:27:45] To say who was responsible in most cases.
[00:27:50] and there's also the idea of the AI bubble,
[00:27:52] Now, just to show of hands. How many people believe we have? An AI bubble right now. I'm just curious.
[00:27:58] Okay, that's that's a goodly number. Um I I believe there is an AI bubble, the difference between this bubble and others is if it pops it won't change anything.
[00:28:07] Because there is a need for these countries to protect their AI interests, and they will fund it. Even if they have to go into deficit, spending to do it.
[00:28:16] The providers will also use Funny Money deals in the market where they make an announcement, that generates revenue for them, they sell the stock, and then they have the money that they didn't have before. You've seen that happen recently, sometimes those deals collapse before they come to fruition.
[00:28:30] But the idea of a bubble means we have to find new ways to keep funding. What the bubble was about to start with. Because demand is not going to go down. It's only going to keep rising and so much like military spending or spending in the nuclear arms, race or spending in the space race.
[00:28:47] We'll have to find ways to keep doing it, even if we have to sell our debt to other countries.
[00:28:53] So the bubble May burst and it may not make a a a difference because ma demand is well ahead of Supply AI is a new National Treasure and it's too big to fail.
[00:29:02] So what you have to deal with is is deficit, spending Bond markets, buying up debt, protectionism and more regulation.
[00:29:10] So here's a time scale.
[00:29:12] To 2040 as we see it.
[00:29:15] Could play out like this 2026. The deregulation versus bubble conflict. That's where we are right now. Align your offerings, with Enterprise budget Cycles. Get the fin Ops in place as the AI bubble persists. And if it breaks at least you're prepared for that 2028. There's a resource scarcity and a scarcity and political strain because the resources are getting more strained. You know, tsmc is the underpinning for everything. We do Taiwan semiconductor manufacturing company and that resource is contested.
[00:29:43] We also have resources, like oil contested because of tensions in the world at the moment, you know, right now I someone just told me that in in the UK they their expectation is they only have enough fuel to last through the fall
[00:29:56] If that's true.
[00:29:58] I'm glad I live in Atlanta, Georgia.
[00:30:00] Because I'm not going to be able to fly here in back again, because it won't be available, of course, living in Atlanta, Georgia has its own problems. But the notion is that we have to prioritize our resources and our usage and political strain, will will exacerbate it by 2030? The rise of global AI sovereignty is going to be an issue. The US generally doesn't care about sovereignty. Now, it must
[00:30:21] now it must the US is behind on this issue and could be harmed by by more than anyone else because of that blindness to sovereignty 2032 is when we transition into the the ROI Reckoning, most people think it's 2027, I think it'll be 2032 because deficit spending will let us go faster and farther and people will have to reckon with the idea that Roi must be given that
[00:30:45] Will come from high prioritization efforts.
[00:30:48] 2030 2035. The global regulatory alignment will happen. They'll transition toward a unified compliance, under a growing Global oversight.
[00:30:56] There may have to be a un of AI consumption at some point and 2040. The fully regulated AI landscape will emerge. Okay, so you'll have to operate as if regulation is 1 of your core value, propositions,
[00:31:09] A Time scape is looking at a potential scenario for the future, which we think highly likely to play out that way.
[00:31:17] There's 1 last thing here, physical AI.
[00:31:19] Physical AI will inflate the problem.
[00:31:22] Physical AI is the practice of Designing, physical AI systems that enough of that is human form, robots running around the streets with you.
[00:31:30] Not just self-driving cars. It is an army of Chinese robots that can jump over rocks, and Dodge and hide behind buildings, while they're carrying, automatic weapons. That is real today.
[00:31:40] This is an area where the robots are leaving their cages and entering the world that we inhabit. And so we have to actually be more careful about how they're related, regulating their use regulating their effectiveness and regulating the danger that they represent because they are in a physical environment, they have to have multimodal sensing, they're always watching what's going on around them, like yourself, driving car. It has to be able to see what's happening. What happens to that data and what if they don't see effectively, they have perception. They decide what it means. They figure out what they have to do and they act on it. And that multimodal, interaction continues in
[00:32:15] Cycle that cycle has to be overseen and governed for us because the Caged robots were in a cage. They were safer. The physical AI That's not in a cage is less safe for US unless they're heavily overseen and regulated. So that may be the trigger point for many companies that don't think about regulation very much but they have to because the physical AI jumps in and changes the game.
[00:32:40] so,
[00:32:41] here's the question that I'll leave you with.
[00:32:44] If we get physically Ai, and we get AGI and we get all this AI running around, should they have rights?
[00:32:51] Because when we say who's to blame who's responsible, if the AI is a legal entity that has rights, then we can blame the agent.
[00:32:59] but they,
[00:33:00] Have to have an economic system behind them. They have to be able to buy things and being given the permission to to actually pay for those things. That's the way that we punish them. We will punish them based on the idea that we take away their money or we take away their power. And that is 1 way, we can control them, but the argument against uh, you know, it's a thing. And not every, not even that smart, it's just a tool. Well they will they're becoming smarter every day and increasingly, we're having harder times telling the difference so it's counterfeit reality not just in a virtual sense but in a real physical sense, the second argument against how do you punish an AI. As I say, you take away its power, you starve it for power and it then can't do what it wants to do. You can do whatever you want. With my property is another issue. You know, this sounds like slavery to me.
[00:33:45] But the idea is that if if it's not sentient and it doesn't have rights, we can treat it like a machine and Taxation. We can tax the use of machines, less than we can tax with people do the arguments for AI. Will start to get early forms of agency and these new emerging behaviors will begin to emerge. They will do things. We did not expect
[00:34:06] and that, that lack of expectation means they will create new things in the world.
[00:34:10] You know, we also we already see animals have rights if you have a cat or you have a dog.
[00:34:15] It's like a child, it has rights and you can't treat it as if it doesn't. And so AI is headed in that direction in the physical world and since damaging AI affects the whole network, we should be looking at ways to make it more.
[00:34:30] A part of our world.
[00:34:32] So here we are use physical Ai and invited AI as a blueprint, use it as a blueprint, to get to the the place you want to be.
[00:34:39] So there we have it. AI treated as a control substance it's about prioritization of resources prioritization of access and regulation that allows us to build The Human Condition, not just to build the wealth of the people in power.
[00:34:55] Thank you very much and enjoy the rest of the conference.