[00:00:03] Hello everyone. Good afternoon. Hope you're having a lovely day. It's a pleasure to see. So many of you here for for this talk. Thank you for coming. Um, my name is Jim, I work at near forj. We do really cool stuff with graphs. And in my day job, uh, I work on this idea of dependability.
[00:00:23] And that's the the property of a system that it will be available that it will give the correct answers that it will tolerate faults. So it will keep running when we need it and throughout most of my time at near 4J, I've been thinking about dependability in the context of databases. It's kind of an important thing, right? You want your databases to be up running, giving you the correct answer.
[00:00:45] Be kind of terrible database if it gave you the wrong answer, right?
[00:00:49] Um, but in recent times,
[00:00:53] Our attention has been deflected by these things called AI large language models and more recently agents. And so we started to think about what it means to have Dependable agents, that is agents that will always be there. That will improve over time that can act autonomously and we can trust them to act autonomously because they've been built with certain principles that give us those kind of dependability guarantees. So, in this session, we'll be talking about the kind of very fast history, of, where we've been with AI and look at some of the data challenges and opportunities that we can use to make sure that our
[00:01:30] Agents can operate for the Long Haul, giving us, high quality, accurate answers.
[00:01:35] Sounds okay.
[00:01:37] Everyone's kind of like mid-afternoon, LOL. All right.
[00:01:40] Let me take you back in time a little bit. I'm going to ask you a question because it is mid afternoon, LOL time, right? So I want you to think about this, it's not a hard question, there's an obvious answer, what is this? It's been trained on a wide range of eclectic subjects. It answers, confidently. Even when making things up, it's opaque about reasoning and it's expensive. And of course, the answer is
[00:02:06] Okay, so when I did this in America people answered and I joked that when I do this in London, nobody will answer.
[00:02:16] Come on, team Europe. It is a
[00:02:19] A human.
[00:02:21] I mean, maybe if that human happens to be a consultant from the top 4 Consultants, Maybe,
[00:02:27] another answer given that we're in AI themed session would be
[00:02:32] llm, yeah, yeah, absolutely, my guess at this
[00:02:36] Actually was this guy.
[00:02:39] Alexander Boris defy for Johnson to give him his full name and I will be using that name in it. Well, it's the only. Now, the reason I bring this guy up, what irrespective of your politics? He's a really useful use case, right? He has been extensively and expensively. Trained. He went to Eton and Oxford. He's a classist, right? So he knows a lot of eclectic facts and in fact, when he wants to
[00:03:00] Flex on you, he'll Trot out a little bit of Latin, just to make sure that, you know your place, right? He's quite good at that, uh, he answers confidently, even when he's making things up and you see this many years ago when he was in the Battle for the London. Male tea with Ken Livingstone Livingston, accused him of lying and Johnson's face was pained right. I think that was a genuine response because in Johnson's World wherever Johnson say is is truth because he's so smart. And so clever that whatever comes out of his mouth, must be true, right? So that's interesting. He's opaque about his reasoning and he's definitely expensive. I think things that I don't think he's a liar. Even though he doesn't intend to be, even though objectively he is a liar. He is the only serving British prime minister.
[00:03:45] The to have been convicted of a crime whilst in office, right? Which, in a way itself, is a remarkable statistic. Given the amount of chances that we have as prime minister in this country. Um, but the only 1 so he's liable, he doesn't perceive that he's lying. He's an interesting person and that has parallels with these wonderful engines that we're working with called llms. They suffer from the Boris, Johnson problem, they are inherently unreliable probabilistic entities and yet we want to make Dependable systems from them, right? That seems like quite a hard challenge in government. It didn't used to be a hard challenge. You could have a prime minister who was as eclectic as Boris Johnson and the Civil Service would kind of smooth things out. So the question I've just realized in front of all
[00:04:30] All of you is what is the equivalent of a civil service? When we build AI systems, I have no idea if that metaphor is going to go anywhere, we'll see in the next 20 minutes, but let me take you back.
[00:04:40] In the ancient history of AI when we were building chat Bots. Remember that.
[00:04:46] Um, you could ask questions of an AI and it would answer, this is an example that Professor yedin Shaw at University of Washington used, uh, 1 of her roles is to talk to llms and see the silly things that they say, it's a really good piece of research. This is an old example. This is from GPT 3.5 but it all resonate with you, I hope so. The question is, if it takes 5 hours, what 5 shirts 1 hour to drive in the Sun? How long would it take 10 shirts and the answer is
[00:05:13] 1 hour.
[00:05:15] Any advance on 1 hour.
[00:05:18] Depends how they piled up. That's a better answer. I think. I, I like, 1 hour because, but actually is it, the end of the day, the start of the day, is it sunny day? How big is your back Garden? How big is your washing line? There's a lot of stuff here, but what does the llm say? If it takes 5 shirts, 1 hour to dry, you can set up a proportion. That sounds very confident in mathematical proportion. GCSE Secondary School mathematics here to test out how long it would take for 10 shirts to dry. If 5 shirts is 1 hour, then 10 shirts will be 2 hours.
[00:05:48] That answer is possibly right. But there's a universe of, there's a spectrum of other answers where that's complete nonsense, right? Because it doesn't actually have the context, right? How big is my back Garden? What's the weather? Like, how big is my washing line?
[00:06:00] And all that kind of stuff. So, I think it
[00:06:03] It's it's a bit Boris Johnson in that respect. Can we do better?
[00:06:07] Well, you should you'd think that you'd be able to answer factually. This is a factual question right there is exactly 1. Correct answer to this question, EML. A-frame is the CEO of NJ. He's my boss. I've known him for getting on for 20 years and I do know who his married to I met his wife before. She was his wife, when she was a tech journalist covering amazing things like graph databases. So I I know the answer to this. I can fact check this right?
[00:06:33] The answer is Emil a from Married Jana a from 2011. Now when I say, I can fact check this, my memory is slightly hazy, but I can basically fact check this write 2011,
[00:06:45] Seems about, right? I joined the FJ in 2010, so around that era feels about right for when they got married. Uh, A-frame Johanna, A-frame Johanna? Oh, Johanna, as they say in Swedish, it's a Swedish name, Emily Swedish, okay, this feels fine to me. Right? So we can we can move on. Just 1 other thing though. So 1 of the ways that in many countries you can share a surname. It is through marriage, right?
[00:07:12] What's another way? You can share a surname, a family name?
[00:07:16] If you have the same grandparents and in this case, Johanna is actually Emil's cousin.
[00:07:22] Emilyn, you are not married.
[00:07:25] Sweden is weird. Hello. Swedish people. It's not that weird Jenna. Hey uh it's not
[00:07:30] Not that weird, is it right? It's super not that weird. Right, so this is nonsense. This is a this is a fact checkable fact and it is failed miserably but it's still spat it out with confidence and it's really disappointing, right? Because AI should be giving us so much more, right? It should be giving us lower complexity lower cost, it should be enabling us to uh, monitor for compliance and lower and manage our risk. It should improve the experiences, not lie, and therefore, it should grow our Revenue, it should drive Innovation and it should drive Market Innovation for all of us, and it is for falling short. Yeah. So you can go to the other the other sessions. They'll tell you, how amazing Everything is. Everything is Awesome. It's falling terribly terribly short, but it's redeemable.
[00:08:10] Why is it falling short? Well, actually the MIT of now very famous.
[00:08:15] State of, uh, AI from MIT. So 95% of generative AI efforts failed to deliver value. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you in it which has a terrible history of delivering 50% of our projects fail and that's bad enough.
[00:08:31] But in gen AI, 95% that is to say 5% of all this money that's being thrown into this discipline.
[00:08:38] Is just succeed is succeeding, 95% is evaporating, it's providing no value and why well, the models themselves are only half the picture because in report after report, after report, what we're hearing is that it isn't just about the AI. It's about the data that we're feeding into those models. It's the systems that we're building
[00:09:00] it's the kind of data that we're feeding these models, with why
[00:09:05] Because your data looks like this.
[00:09:07] Why does your data look like this? You may ask ladies and gentlemen. Let me tell you. It's because of the 1970s.
[00:09:14] In the 1970s, your computers were terrible. They're not like the supercomputers that you habitually carry in your pocket today. They were bad and they couldn't really deal with data. So some very clever guy called, God decided that he would abstract away the details data storage and the hardware. And the relational model was born. In fact that's not your model, is it? That's your model. There you go. The spaghetti fried, schema that terrorizes. Many of you in your day jobs.
[00:09:41] We've pushed it Beyond its limits. This model is not a good fit for a
[00:09:45] I our data is not fit for purpose in a world where we want to build autonomous Dependable agents because those agents need context.
[00:09:53] At agents uh the agents need context because they they need to have memory for reasoning. They need to have short-term memory, they need to have long-term memory and that kind of tabular schematized model that we're so used to from the relational world is not a good fit instead, a new model has arrived. We are now using things like decision graphs conversation, or Pathways and knowledge graphs to be able to underpin our agents. And using that, our agents are getting better quality context at lower token counts and they're improving.
[00:10:24] Now, I love graphs near forj is the graph database company. Now the graph intelligence company, I'm told by my market,
[00:10:30] Gives you people to say as a technologist that kind of sticks a little bit, right? Um what is a graph? It's an extremely simple data model for those of you expecting a histogram shame on you, this is a graph. It's a, it's a, this is a napkin. So this is the back of a napkin sketch. A graph consists of uh, nodes entities. They're the round things and they're connected by edges or relationships and using this very simple idiom, you can create high-fidelity data models.
[00:10:55] And because you've got explicit connectivity in the graph, you can start to, you can start to infer as humans, you can start to infer, relevance closeness or patterns of interest. That means that your AI is your models can use that uh uh context as well. Now look, this isn't a flex slide. Many of you in the room represent.
[00:11:15] Organizations that are already using graphs, they're extremely popular, right? They have been now for probably 10 years uh which is a relief to me because I've been working at this stuff for closer to 20, but all of these kind of companies that, you know, most of the Aerospace and defense the top, Telos the top Tech, the top software companies, Insurance retailers, Pharmaceuticals car makers and banks are all using graphs and then not using graphs. Because like me, they are just really into graphs in a peculiarly nerdy way, right? These are people, like you not relatively normal people, I say relatively, well, you know a data conference, but normal people who have normal jobs to do, and they use graphs because graphs solve problems.
[00:11:56] And up until recently, we were quite happy with this.
[00:12:00] We were building graph rag based systems where we benefited from the llms, uh, ability to do language and statistics and creativity. And we're able to couple that with the deterministic data and facts that would come from a graph and we'd inject that deterministic data at the right point in the processing cycle and improve the quality of the answers that we get from the llms. Right. So I guess many of us in the room have built, these kind of chat Bots star projects,
[00:12:28] And it works because if you think about it and llm is nothing but a lossy compression of its training data. It's like a lossy, a lossy version of the internet, you pour the internet into it, some weights get changed and now miraculously it can answer the the model but it doesn't know about your data because it wasn't
[00:12:45] Trained on it and it doesn't know about new data that's come along because it hasn't been trained on it. So you're restoring some of that loss in Us by injecting timely factual data into the process. It's that simple.
[00:12:57] But what we're injecting isn't an encyclopedia, it isn't static. When I talk to people down on the, uh, on the, uh, exhibition floor. People talk to me about knowledge, graphs as if there's some kind of pristine artifact, like some kind of some library that doesn't change. And I've never seen that actually knowledge. Graphs are wonderful Rich Dynamic structures. That capture not only the historical knowledge of your Enterprise, but also the things that are happening now and that stuff that's happening. Now is really important because it makes sure that your agent your model can operate
[00:13:30] On up-to-date data.
[00:13:32] Let me show you an example. Something that's certainly near to my heart, in my household, my kid is an addict to all of the EA franchises. So I have to make sure that this works really well, but EA very large video gaming company.
[00:13:45] They've got a challenge, uh, and their challenge is, um, how does their business work? They got 150. Non-technical analysts that need real-time access to data so they can make decisions. And the kind of data that they're interested in is well, what happens. If a football player gets injured for the rest of the season? What happens if a competitor makes a release do we do some big bang for Black Friday in the US? Or do we hold our hold our funds back and do some kind of push for Christmas in in the UK that kind of stuff. So real business.
[00:14:15] Level questions at least analyst a smart people but they're not going to write database queries. They need this in natural language. Moreover, they've got no holistic view across all of their data, silos, like many of us, our data, scattered around the place.
[00:14:28] And they really can't get answers to complex questions. For example, how do competitor launches impact our sales? So this has to change. They have to move from a kind of um, labor intensive, slow kind of um, business analysis to something that can happen in real time. In conversation with the, uh, analysts that are running the business.
[00:14:51] And actually, what comes out of it is an architecture which is
[00:14:56] pleasantly boring, right? I think boring is a much unloved term.
[00:15:00] Computing. And it shouldn't be boring is good, right? Swedish lady is smiling.
[00:15:05] Most boring country in the world. They drive with their headlights on in the daytime, they are that boring.
[00:15:10] Solidarity. Um, boring is good, and this is boring. Look, you've got the bottom here, A bunch of data in probably databases, probably not near for Jay but you know, they'll get there.
[00:15:23] And all of the people who are using these systems keep using them, without any knowledge of what's going on above. So the systems of record remain in the change the same, then you've got semantic layer, curated, layer above that. That's making sense. That's connecting facts across different domains. Maybe even storing graph data in that layer, which is then fed up to the agents. And the agents are doing that processing Loop to be able
[00:15:45] To check and recheck and derive insights from that underlying data, which is curated. And then finally, on the top, it's just a chatbot, right? So this is a wonderfully boring architecture, but it delivers anything, but borrowing results, 92% time, reduction, uh, for analysts on routine requests 10, x faster in time to Insight versus their previous method.
[00:16:07] And it's astonishing, right? Uh, these things from such a boring architecture, delivers such huge business value.
[00:16:14] I'm going to stay in the world of Electronic Arts, who in the room identifies as being old.
[00:16:21] Ah, good for you. There are a few more that weren't going to go for it who recognizes Sim City.
[00:16:26] All right. You also know identifies being old well done. I
[00:16:30] Loved Sim City. I spent so much of my teenage years wasting my life on Sim City, but it turns out it's finally useful for something. So when my mom tells me, oh, you wasted all of those hours playing video games. I'll be like, well, look, mom, there's hundreds of people in the room letting me talk about Sim City. So who's the loser now? Um,
[00:16:47] possibly still me because I've just singled out my mom in front of hundreds of people. But look this metaphor which works really well in Sim City, you have layers in your city model. In our world, the base layer is the Enterprise Knowledge Graph, the Cadence of change in, that graph is relatively low. It is mutable, it is dynamic, but relatively low. It's the equivalent of for example, our sewage system or power lines or you know Railway or something like that, it does change over time. But the Cadence is relatively low on top of
[00:17:15] That you have the conversational there, the things that are happening now, not the railway tracks, but as I found out this morning, when the trains broke yet again, the current state of the services on those tracks and how things are going to get rerooted and blah, blah, blah, right, Transport for London. Does a good job of this, by the way, um, using a similar thing. And then on top of that,
[00:17:33] the decision graph. Why did I take this decision? Given the facts available to me? What did I do? And why, and I record that.
[00:17:42] Right? Which I think is the new interesting thing in how we're going to make agents better recording decisions so you can reflect on them and do better next time, right? And taken together, this gives you context, it gives you the the background knowledge. You need the facts at the moment and the decision that you made.
[00:18:00] Played against previous decisions that you have made, or you as your agent have made.
[00:18:05] And this allows the agent to improve. If it can always Benchmark against what it did before because it has its decisions. And it's it's reasoning recorded. It can improve and do better, it can run autonomously and be Dependable better still.
[00:18:21] None of this is rocket science.
[00:18:24] It's a little bit of graph Theory, granted, it's a wonderful book by ginestra Bianca, who is a professor at Queen Mary University. So not far from here and she talks about this as multi-layer Networks.
[00:18:37] And the idea here is that you can query any of these layers individually.
[00:18:42] But equally you can query them all together.
[00:18:45] For the old people in the room. Hello again, it's like overhead transparencies from the old days. You remember them? Yeah. You're too young for that sir. But I thank you for nodding, at me, you can imagine what it was, you've seen 1 in the museum, right? You can layer them together and the picture gets bigger or you can tease them apart because you want to zoom in on a particular thing and operationalizing. This is straightforward because we have these things called graph databases which as it turns out are a really lovely fit for storing these layers, safely, and querying them at high performance.
[00:19:18] So, how is this going to work then?
[00:19:20] Well.
[00:19:21] We're not the first people to notice this.
[00:19:24] Here's London.
[00:19:26] When I Googled it, I don't know sometime ago.
[00:19:29] Somewhere.
[00:19:30] Hits some data, some Mappy stuff. But this thing in the
[00:19:34] The bottom right there. That's a bit interesting, right?
[00:19:39] London is the capital of England, correct. And the United Kingdom bit confusing that but also correct.
[00:19:46] 21st Century City in places um with a history stretching back to Roman times blah, blah blah, at the center of the imposer. It has a problem, the iconic big Ben clock
[00:19:57] factual inaccuracy by the way.
[00:20:00] Ah yeah we got a guy nodding there. You know what it's called you it's coming. Don't spoil it blah blah blah blah. Where's this come from this didn't come from like a web page. It seems to have been sort of generated somehow this thing down here.
[00:20:12] Um, let's have a look then yeah a lot of good stuff. Go
[00:20:15] And that you can see your post goes, blah, blah, blah. Oh, we found it in add 47 as londinium. Cool, cool, right? Where is this coming from? Well, it's coming from something like this. It's coming from some kind of Knowledge Graph initially,
[00:20:27] And you can see here, look, this is a very much, a kind of 4 teaching Knowledge Graph. Please don't try and, uh, code it this way, but you can see here, I've got these, these nodes, these round things.
[00:20:37] And they represent entities and you see, it's a very lot of entities here. I've got a city, I've got countries, I've got tourism things, I've got neighborhoods and you can read this as London is in England and England is part of the United Kingdom. Since 1707
[00:20:55] And then this is other country. By the way, called Scotland, you might have heard of it.
[00:20:59] Uh,
[00:21:00] And it is also part of the United Kingdom since 1707, although, to be fair, the Scots did start their active Union 1 year earlier, because they were bankrupt.
[00:21:08] Um, and they needed English money. Did I get that right Scott.
[00:21:12] Yes. Yeah. Uh and you know, England is a country, has this team, which is a football team and we're very supportive of that team.
[00:21:21] When they're winning.
[00:21:22] Uh, over here London is in England, but Westminster is in London and Elizabeth Tower known as Big Ben.
[00:21:32] Is in London and it's an attraction in Westminster. Wow, you've just done what any forj does. Every day with Traverse the graph. And we found out some facts cool. But that's very knowledgy, right? It feels like a lot of this is quite
[00:21:45] Slow moving facts. Yeah. I mean Scotland made like yeah leave the union but it's quite a slow moving fact so this is kind of our knowledge graph our lowest layer if you like
[00:21:54] We can add to that, right? I'm going to add to that some context. Some of my, some of my life will will will appear in this. Now,
[00:22:01] Is a neighborhood in London for the Americans in the audience. That's southwalk. Okay? For everyone else, Southern and
[00:22:10] Come on, kidding. I I still can't pronounce hullman. Did I get it right hullman? It's hard. It's hard and near forj uh is in southern. So that's cool. That's about me now about me and I work in in near forj in Southern. And so the question could be, if I wanted to get from near forj in Sooke, to see the iconic
[00:22:30] Big Ben AKA Elizabeth Tower? How would I get there? What would I do? What knowledge would I bring in here? What current information would I bring in here? It turns out that
[00:22:40] in the FJ is in Sooke and, uh, he has a parliament and, and the Elizabeth Tower and big Ben are in Westminster. So, I've got some facts. I can map between these 2 layers where the tube layer is kind of my, uh, context. Sorry, uh, conversational there, uh, things that I want to do at the moment. And my goal is to get from Southern James, Southern to Westminster. So, I can look at the fabulous, Big Ben, right? Easy peasy. And then the decision is, we're going to send you on the tube after you actually. It says a bus, but I don't think that's necessary. We're going to go on the
[00:23:15] Tube. It's going to send me a couple of stops along the Jubilee line because DJ is near to the Jubilee, uh, tube stop at Southern and big Ben is near to the Jubilee tube, stop in Westminster. And so given the time of day given
[00:23:30] The state of the network, the whole transport Network. At the time, it has told me that I'm going to, uh, take the tube. Would that be the same if I was a wheelchair user? Maybe not, would that be the same in context if it was a sunny day, not like today, right? The weather has turned English again. Uh, if it was a lovely day, maybe it would tell me to take a bicycle or use the fairy or walk actually, walking would be quite nice. That's a, um, a really nice thing to do, but it gives
[00:24:01] That decision.
[00:24:02] in context and moreover it records, it
[00:24:06] Yeah, so it's part of our history now.
[00:24:09] That decision if someone wants to go from Southern to Westminster is part of our history and the agent can access that and refine it and it will learn that on sunny days. Walking is a good idea. And on rainy days take the tube because it's raining and wet and miserable and it all comes out nicely. So we're moving now.
[00:24:26] from uh,
[00:24:28] Systems architecture where we have a year or so a year or 2 ago where it was just graph rag where we're able to take facts tokens from a Knowledge Graph and sling them along into the llm along with our own prompts. We're going to surpass, where we've gone. We're going to go from that.
[00:24:45] Idea of grass providing just uh, facts to address loss.
[00:24:49] Because conversation graphs are going to provide information about how you what you care about now. And those decision graphs are going to provide information about what you did in the past, so you can learn from it and improve for the future.
[00:25:05] Now, if you're thinking okay, all this is very good on PowerPoint. I've got serious, you know, businesses to run on this. How am I going to do it? Well, again, thankfully, it's a relatively boring step in your Enterprise architecture.
[00:25:18] You have loads of data sources in your, in your businesses, right? You've got Oracle, you've got mongodb, maybe you've got some near forj looking around as well, they're not going away. Much as I would love to tell you, throw everything out and install near.
[00:25:30] For Joe, that's just not practical.
[00:25:32] We know this. So we've got some data sources that are going to be owned by, you know, line of business units that don't want to give it up, fine, don't fight that fight.
[00:25:40] But when we want to actually curate them together, this is where the context graph layer comes into play and that context graph layer is your decision graph. Your conversation graph and your knowledge graph. It can be native. This could be a near 4J instance or it could again, through a near forj, Federate out, to other existing data sources, which you don't want to touch yet,
[00:26:01] It's not even hard and we layer on top of that.
[00:26:03] Our agents which are going to use the decisions, the conversations and the knowledge that we've curated in that layer.
[00:26:08] And we're going to empower applications on top, whether that's chat Bots or or uh other application Types on top.
[00:26:16] Importantly though.
[00:26:18] There are some folks that I think are a little bit ahead of the curve here. And this is a piece from uh Foundation capital and it was Foundation capital. I think first popularized the term context graph around the turn of the year.
[00:26:30] And they.
[00:26:31] kind of gave us some interesting advice for how to build these and in particular,
[00:26:37] They point at the data, and many of us who deal with graphs are quite fans of things like ontologies. All right, they help us to structure and understand data. They're complements a semantic complement to the structural schema
[00:26:50] But here, though, these folks are telling us from from our foundation Capital, not to be too strong there to not strangle.
[00:26:58] Our data model at Birth.
[00:27:00] And in fact to see the agent as a co-creator of an ontology is someone that works with us as new facts arise to be able to extend the data model. So those of us that come from a kind of closed ontology World, we're going to have to learn to loosen up a bit and start to trust the system. Yeah discoveries will be made. And if we close off our graph right now, when it's born with a strict ontology, we're going to limit what our agents can do. We're going to limit their ability to perform autonomously and improve their behavior over time.
[00:27:30] Now if you're 1 level down from here, if you're actually building this stuff I would absolutely invite you to check out near freej agent memory. It's a framework that will give you that 3 levels of memory and all of the integration, all of the resolvers and stuff that will glue them to.
[00:27:45] Together. So that you don't have to do that hard work. That is, uh, freely available on GitHub. It's a piece of Open Source at some of my colleagues maintain and it will give you a big boost when it comes to building. Your own systems with context. Grass, I'll wait for the cameras to go down.
[00:28:00] All right.
[00:28:01] And the final thing.
[00:28:05] people talk to me a lot and they say, well, you know, this is all very good and you know, I'm I'm I'm intrigued by what you say but
[00:28:11] What happens when I switch my agent on? They're kind of dumb, right? Because they haven't made any decisions yet. So there's a possibility that you get a really bad failure Loop because the agents haven't made any decisions. So they make bad decisions and then they kind of get bad decisions after bad decisions that it goes catastrophic and the thing I say back to them is but
[00:28:30] Use, you know, business stakeholders as a business, you've been making decisions for years and some of them you got, right? And some of you got wrong, but you've got policies and procedures. Why not? Just as, Uber did write them down and give them to your agent as a way of bootstrapping it. You avoid the cold start problem and give your a agent. Some purchase in your domain so it can then start to make decisions on its own independently autonomously and dependably as it goes forward.
[00:28:57] So, as I wrap up here in the last 30 seconds, or so, some great resources here that I think might be of interest, uh, to to you folks. Uh, there's a really nice demo around financial analysis. There is the create context, graph tooling the nej agent memory tool kit. And finally, the create context graph uh, uh, from
[00:29:15] the FJ Labs please do uh get involved in those things and finally in the last 20 seconds
[00:29:23] Please don't let this be the end of the conversation. There's a there's me and a bunch of new FJ folks down on the exhibition floor. If this stuff is interesting to you, if graphs are interesting, you the notion of Dependable agents is interesting, you please see this as the start of a conversation come and chat to us, we'd love to learn about the amazing things, you're building and maybe we can swap ideas and learn from each other until then thank you very much for attending have a lovely afternoon. It's been a pleasure spending time with you. Thank you.