[00:00:04] Welcome everyone.
[00:00:06] so, today we are going to talk about
[00:00:09] A company that impacts all of us directly and indirectly. Um, we are going to talk about some numbers 90,000 employees, 100 plus countries, billions of dollars of revenues
[00:00:21] But behind those numbers, what matters is.
[00:00:24] The drugs that save people lives.
[00:00:28] People who were suffering from rare forms of care, cancers, rare diseases, and all of those people who are alive.
[00:00:35] Because a drug was discovered.
[00:00:38] Manufactured and delivered at the right time.
[00:00:43] For the right person.
[00:00:45] And behind all of that process is a very complex supply chain, and a lot of data.
[00:00:52] Dozens. Um,
[00:00:54] Of countries participating in thousands of clinical trials, to make sure that the drug that is delivered to the people suffering for those.
[00:01:03] From those diseases.
[00:01:05] Those are safe and they're, they're fit for purpose.
[00:01:09] And there's a lot of data that is generated by all of those clinical trials.
[00:01:14] So,
[00:01:15] How do we make sure that the data that is being generated and consumed by those processes?
[00:01:23] Is made accessible to people who are running those science experiments and not just those people.
[00:01:30] People who know how to run a database query.
[00:01:33] And that is what our topic of today's conversation is, and how do we make the data accessible to people beyond the Geeks?
[00:01:45] And when we talk about those Geeks, I'm talking about the data Geeks.
[00:01:49] From data Geeks to the science Geeks.
[00:01:53] And we're going to talk about agents, semantic, views, access patterns data, democratization.
[00:02:00] My name is forat kureshi and I'm a global field CTO at Snowflake and with me is Rob.
[00:02:07] So thank you forward. So I'm I'm Rob Christmas, I head up, Enterprise analytics, um planning and AI within our axial.
[00:02:15] Transformation program and we we're going to have quite an informal conversation around analytics, but I was going to just take a few moments to introduce Astro Zeno a little bit where we are as a business and give some context to our discussion around analytics. Um,
[00:02:30] So I think know many of you will know astrozen by name. Um but it's probably important to talk a little bit about um who we are as a company and what drives us. So Astro is a truly Global science-led and innovation-led pharmaceutical company with a strong focus on patient outcomes. Um, and that's Central to our mission.
[00:02:53] Um, we have a diverse uh portfolio of meds, so we span a broad set of therapeutic.
[00:03:00] Areas from oncology all the way through to rare disease. And that means we're focused on patients in a number of different settings, including primary care. But also, in specialty care. And we have a very important division that focuses on rare diseases, so those are diseases which may be impact only 1 in a million people but none, the less are an important medical need.
[00:03:21] And so, our Global strength is really defined um, by the breath from most and portfolio. And that means we have a differentiated presence, not just in sort of mature, markets, like the us, but also in emerging markets. And for a number of years astroica has a very strong focus on sustainability. Not just in terms of access to healthcare and medicine but sustainability, in terms of our global,
[00:03:45] Climate Challenge and how we contribute, uh, to reduce Global emission. And that's a very important part of of what drives us.
[00:03:53] So a few, a few numbers. We're going to talk about data analytics, so we we got to go start with numbers. So, the key thing I want without reading out these verbatim, the key thing I want you to take away is astrozen is growing at a important rate, uh, for a pharmaceutical company. So last year, we saw 10% growth and that followed a period of sustained growth. And through this growth, we're also launching new medicines and particularly last year making a number of very important Capital Investments, not just in research and development, which we've done for a number of years, but also a new manufacturing capabilities and other capabilities within the organization.
[00:04:30] And so what that growth trajectory is given us is quite a few scalability challenges.
[00:04:35] And so when I talk about analytics and data, we'll talk about how those are important to our growth and scalability.
[00:04:43] So we've we've articulated, so as I mentioned we're growing so we've articulated our growth strategy in our overall strategy in terms of what we call our bold ambition, or sometimes we say ambition 2030 and quite recently. We also talked very much to how AI is going to underpin uh that bold ambition. But essentially our bold ambition is to deliver 20 new medicines. Um by 2030 to continue to lead and sustainability as we have been doing and to grow to be an 80 billion dollar company which um and I've been with Astro 8 years that's almost a 4-fold.
[00:05:15] Growth of where I joined the company 8 years ago.
[00:05:19] so with that context, I'll sort of move on to, uh, data analytics and
[00:05:25] Probably just go back 1. So
[00:05:28] So, I've articulated this growth strategy and underpinning that are some important transformational programs. We have a large Erp program to implement sap, uh, which is a multi-year program, which we'll deliver in 2030. And then we have a equivalent program around, um, our commercial data and customer data.
[00:05:46] And last year, what we reflected is that those those programs will only achieve maturity close to that 2030 goal. So though, we have made significant progress with that Erp program, it will only be fully deployed by 2030.
[00:06:00] So the question we asked ourselves kind of in the second half of last year, was how do we accelerate insight and analytics? And particularly take advantage of the evolution in AI ahead of maturity within those programs. And essentially, how do we Bridge a kind of future data state, which is going to be cleansed, highly structured data with an Erp transformation with our Legacy state, which is more fragmented data.
[00:06:25] So with that challenge in mind um, we set about a sort of transformational program in Enterprise analytics, and that's what I want to talk about today. And we'll have a conversation and we'll also emphasized snowflake, it's sort of really at the foundation of enabling that program, and enabling that breach between our current and future state. So, the we've called the
[00:06:45] Program Aspire. Um and what it is is essentially we've created a new Enterprise analytics platform built on snowflake technology with a really fast um sort of visualization layer.
[00:06:58] And in in 1 sentence what we're trying to achieve is 1 place in the organization that leaders and decision makers can go
[00:07:07] to get analytical insight and AI Insight in 1 place.
[00:07:12] Um, and so it's aimed squarely at our senior leaders at a decision makers, and probably for the first time, we're giving we're giving everyone a 1 door, 1 Stop Shop to to get that insight. And that is a contrast from our Legacy, which is many different analytics platforms. Many different
[00:07:30] Dashboards really a plethora of tools, which sometimes are confusing to navigate.
[00:07:36] And the features of that platform. So this is not really about going in depth into any specific area, but it's really around breadth and bridging across multiple divisions. So our leaders can see across the company. All the way from R&D to operations, to manufacturing, to commercial, supply chain, and quite often. Historically we focused analytics on going very deep in a specific area. But this is probably the first time we were able to look at the organization in 1 place and or or augment that as I said with AI insight and that concept of 1 place and going to 1 place for insight is is very important. So we're coming from a legacy of a very fragmented environment.
[00:08:15] Lots and lots of reports, quite a confusing landscape. Lots of Legacy Erp systems. The future state will be 1 ARP system, 1 place to go for analytics and insights. So that's the vision we sort of set out last year. And we're approximately 6 months into this transformation which we've been leading Within astrozen.
[00:08:33] So that's a little bit of context to where we are and what we're doing analytics. So um I think I'll pass back to forward and we'll talk a little bit about the implications of that program.
[00:08:42] So that was very fascinating, you know, Forex growth at the scale of
[00:08:48] Tens of millions. Yeah, right. So 1 of the things that you were discussing was um, earlier on that towards the end of the, uh, in the beginning of the 20th century, when electricity was coming in
[00:09:00] The the successful industries were the 1 who who basically changed the Flow Design. Not just replace steam engine and coal with electricity and there's a there's a lot of business transformation at play. It's not just a rip and replace with this thing, you, you had a bi dashboard. Now you have an AI dashboard
[00:09:16] So how do you see the transmission at play? At the scale of astrozen and how it is helping you get to that point your objectives of 2030?
[00:09:24] So, so it's really great analogy. And, um, essentially what what we don't want to be, is a sort of the old factory, which just adopts adopts, the, the new technology. Um, so maybe we'll talk a little bit about what's what's transformational in terms of analytics because obviously we've been doing all of us have been doing
[00:09:43] data analytics for for
[00:09:45] Quite a long time. Um so kind of 3, 3 things and I'm really going to focus on what what it means for workflow. So the first thing we're extremely focused on and I think most you in this room be focused on is consistent data products and the consistent data foundation. So if you look at our sort of old Factory Legacy workflow around analytics, we're spending a lot of time just
[00:10:06] Finding out what the number is, reconciling different numbers across the organization. Maybe we're working off old data maybe working off new data, but there's a whole sort of industry and process within the company, which is just reconciling. What's the right number to look at? And we do lose time, I mean there there sort of famous anecdotes but we actually lose time when senior leaders come into a market and they're looking at a different number to they have within the market. And then, you know, how do we reconcile those gaps?
[00:10:30] So, so the first thing we've really sort of focused on is this sort of consistent data products? Everyone is looking at the same kpi with the same language. So, that's sort of our first new Factory piece. The second is around a big shift to simplification. We, we're a highly sort of science driven company. We, we really value, um, science and Technical thought, but sometimes we can over complicate things. So we want to drive Simplicity and metrics and shift it a little bit from rather than getting everything on the table. We can look at sort of in reversing that and saying, well, what questions do we want to answer? So, based on our ambition, 2030, stat strategy, what do we want to answer? And personalize that to the individual? So what do you as a leader need to answer?
[00:11:15] So, the second thing has been a big focus on simplification going away from traditionally very busy dashboards to simple metrics. Now,
[00:11:23] How we can do that now. And what's really transformational is the opportunity? We're we're gaining from AI because historically we sort of put all the data out there and we had kind of SMS and subject matter experts, who who performed the role of finding the data forming the hypothesis. And now analyzing the data from making the recommendation themselves,
[00:11:42] What we've seen is an opportunity that AI can perform elements of that role.
[00:11:47] So we really interested in AI as a digital co-worker, a sort of cognitive next expert that sits next to a leader and provides Insight which enables them to make decisions and in that simpl
[00:12:00] Ation of dashboards, what we can do is we can shift some of the sort of more detailed questions. The more detailed Insight down to that AI gen AI layer and that's the essence of what we've been trying to do within this new. Analytics platform is bring the power of generative AI together with sort of more traditional kpis and dashboard views but great question.
[00:12:19] You mentioned about your your progress uh since you're early on, right? So you have made these changes and we have to talk about Mr. Ducker here who you know you have to measure it. Yeah. So are you on the right track? What are the lessons that you can share for others who are in the similar Journey? If you're not getting those early signals, how do you measure? What can you share?
[00:12:42] so, we're about 6 months in
[00:12:45] And I think the thing we did which was very uncomfortable for us which I think has realized some positive results. Is we put a product out there. This new Enterprise analytics platform in the state of considerable immaturity perhaps with just a few weeks of development.
[00:13:02] And we chose a couple of sort of important pilot markets, which represented different areas of our business. And we gave them this, very immature product, but we said to them, you know, we want to develop this collaboratively with you.
[00:13:14] And so the essence of the conversation was there was a lot of time spent on that foundational data question, aligning on kpis and also really understanding why we have differences in data today and so we got a pipeline and sort of thanks to some foundation work. We've done this
[00:13:30] Snowflake, we got a pipeline of called the kpis into the hands of those business users, but then we started to iterate with them within that 6 months was really fast Cycles saying, you know, is this useful for you to you? Is that what you want to see? What questions? Do you want to ask and particularly for the AI, use, the AI queries to inform, what the questions they are had and what they looked at. So this is quite unusual for us typically we're sort of waterfall company. Pharmaceutical. We tend to engineer products, to sort of the nth degree and I mentioned, I'm in the year P program, certainly near P program. We do a lot of upfront, engineering and then we release the product to the business. In this case, we started with something quite basic and did Fast iteration. But what that's meant is over 6 months, we've learned a lot from our customer base, but also we
[00:14:15] You see actually the maturity of the product going really, really fast and and accelerates with those each cycle and those iterations. So, we're quite it's the first time we've done this but we're quite excited by the results. And I think within 6 months, we now feel we're in a position to now scale it Beyond those pilot markets.
[00:14:32] So that is kind of the only signals we're getting okay. And and have you got any early feedback from the end users who are using the system? What do they feel? You know, kind of a before and after picture uh, any any uh, user feedback directly on the system. Um, so there's a really important conversation around kpis and data.
[00:14:52] And understanding the differences and I think that's where the conversation started. So what does data you look at today? Why do we see differences?
[00:15:00] Through those conversations with. I think, we'll, we'll come on to this. We we we start to train that semantic layer. Yeah. So, what's the language that we talk about the data?
[00:15:08] So but generally in the organization, quite a lot of comfort dealing with what we would call traditional dashboards or traditional structured data. The AI is more interesting. We have a very sort of mixed cohort, we have parts of the organization that really embracing AI, very Hands-On, probably doing their own things building their own agents, part of the organization. That's quite skeptical about AI, skeptical about its results. So the AI has been a little bit more, um,
[00:15:32] I guess collaborative and sort of encouragement um and and I'll talk in a few moments but basically an acceptance of its imperfection. What we're we're trying to do uh Drive adoption um but I think those are the the sort of 2 things.
[00:15:45] Piece of feedback. We've got um initially the users were skeptical about Simplicity. Um, I think they felt they needed to see a lot more
[00:15:53] As they got to use the use of the platform and really sort of Challenge on those decisions, they want to make, there's much more acceptance of the Simplicity of the measures, much more acceptance. The AI can give the detailed answers. So I think we are seeing some success, a traditionally, quite a complex company. In terms, how we look at data is starting to embrace simplification. Yeah, so getting comfortable with the new Norm was the key lesson, you know? So there's a user training and, you know, this is the new way of working, absolutely. Um, since you mentioned semantic views, and, and something that, you know, you and I have discussed and got some past experiences. So most of the, the data platform that are built in the world are built for.
[00:16:30] What I call as the human to machine connectivity. Yeah. So machines and the systems have all of the technical metadata and the domain context is in somebody's brain. Yeah. And if that person is on holiday, then you know, your business domain is also on holiday. Yeah. So how do you make that?
[00:16:46] Machine to machine connectivity. So that an agent can talk to it. The role of semantic layers and and how did you in institutionalize that knowledge across the organization today?
[00:16:56] Um, sorry, it's a brilliant question. I, I know it's at least personally like
[00:17:01] The, the concept of training is an automatic layer, is something that's very new, very new to all of us. Um, and the concept of sort of machine to machine learning in that role of AI. So I think I've always mentioned 3 of those conversations around measures. Um,
[00:17:15] You know, a lot of the organization their fundamental question is okay. I understand that the the semantic layer is the tacit knowledge that I have in a as an SME. It's, you know, the things that I understand when I look at data, how do I impart that on the system? Um, so we've been able to explain the concept of, you know, the contextualization, the insights you get from data, but a lot of the the efforts. Well, how do we actually train the system? How do we train Ghent of AI to understand that? Um, looking very much at unstructured documentation, we have already but other mechanisms of capture. Even just asking people to record transcripts or conversations, they have about performance data. What we've been able to explain is that, you know, the more context we can capture and that a technical level platforms like snowflake can sort of take care of how we we organize
[00:18:00] That data. Um, but trying to convey that sort of business knowledge that business way of speaking in into the platform and that being the foundation of machine to machine connectivity. So obviously, if the are, the machine doesn't understand the business language and business context, it can't give valuable Insight, but I think so. Initially, there may be a reluctance, you know, I'm an SME, I have that knowledge. That's kind of, what, what, empowers me in the company. I think, what we've shown is that by that upfront investment in semantic layer, the Gent of AI insights and the insights, you get as a sort of co-worker or a colleague become very valuable and sort of enhance your role as an SME, it's almost like, and and this is something we're very focused on the AI is not about replacing your role.
[00:18:45] But it's like a really powerful cognitive expert that sits next to you and provides you with insight and things that you may not see yourself. Um, so it's early days, we're learning how to do this. Um, I think what we've seen with snowflake is it gives us a framework where we can capture both structure and unstructured data to do that training. Um and obviously we're learning through iteration so this is a is a multi-year journey. It's not not a short Journey at all.
[00:19:10] So we are moving a step back uh, you know, from from the end outcomes to semantic layers now to back to data, foundation and architecture. Right? So I mean every transformation that happens at scale, especially an organization like, uh, like a, you know, there are lots of great things, you know, you have lots of pretty slides, road maps and, you know,
[00:19:30] But the real world has a lot of complex dependencies, right? So you you operate in 100 plus countries regulatory environments, you know, sap integration still coming semantic layers business users, who need something before it is ready. So how do you make all of those complex sequencing decisions in your business and satisfy conflicting requirements?
[00:19:52] So I think with a with a heavy dose of pragmatism so I sort of articulated.
[00:19:58] A current state where we have lots of fragmented fragmented data. We have lots of Legacy systems. We're moving through our current transformation to much more structured data within our ARP program. We're defining sort of formal data products, but but there's a realism about kind of, we we do have a data challenge, we
[00:20:15] Do have uh, data that needs to be cleansed. It needs to be formalized in data products, even a couple of years ago, outside of our R&D unit, we had very few data products. So so that road map is is a little bit pragmatic about where, you know, where where we have good quality data and where we can move that maturity. So we've consciously started in areas where historically, we've been quite good at aggregating data at the Enterprise level. So we definitely started in finance. We started with HR data. We started with a sort of subset of commercial measures which we have historically, um, looked at globally. And so that pragmatism is to an extent defining our roadmap, but we, but we do understand that we do need that. I mentioned that broad view. Um, you know,
[00:21:00] There are gaps that we're going to need to, to fill. So it's the road map itself from pragmatism. It's then supported and I think we, we'll talk a little bit to sap, but is then supported by our ARP transformation and our commercial transformation. Yeah.
[00:21:15] So so talk about sap. Um I mean I was reading somewhere that SAP transacts 17 trillion dollars of the world transaction in its systems and Astra zenica has uh has built the entire Erp on sap and and traditionally it has been very difficult to bring in sap data into the rest of the data ecosystem.
[00:21:35] And uh, snowflake. In fact, yesterday we have announced a latest connector for the sap BDC so that you can do zero, copy application and all
[00:21:44] What sort of?
[00:21:45] Lessons that you have learned through this integration, what were, what? What made it work for you and what are the the benefits? The early benefit that you can share around the sap integration in your data ecosystem. That's a very good question, so,
[00:22:00] So, our Erp program um moving to a single Arps for Hannah program which so with our articulated it it is designed very much from a green Greenfield philosophy. So we haven't made, uh, it is not just a lift and shift from our Legacy ECC. It's a completely clean. Look at, uh, Enterprise data, uh design, it's completely clean. Look at our Enterprise processes. Um, and as I mentioned, we're making good progress, but it will only affect for you.
[00:22:30] Reach maturity at about 2030. What what that means is, it's quite difficult to reconcile our future State, a CP data structures, with our Legacy ECC data structures, which are very different across the 7 or so sap instances. We have so we using snowflake as the bridge. Um, so we had already done some work on our foundational Legacy. Uh, ecc's to bring that data into snowflake when it was important to corporate reporting, we have with the sort of reach and announcements. We now have a mechanism that we can pull, uh, SCP data at our future State. SCP instance into Snowflake, and those, that's where those sort of Legacy data, and and future State sap data
[00:23:15] That comes together and that's very difficult to do. Um and you know, a alternative would be to pull our Legacy data in to kind of SCP and data sphere. But because of the differences in the structure, it's much easier to do that as more effective to do that in Snowflake. The other power we have in Snowflake is we can then bring in other data be that commercial HR data in 1 place. So we see snowflake as the environment where we bring different sort of pockets, Enterprise data together as an accelerator head of having that Erp maturity. And then we can do the analysis and sort of build on the cortex layer. So that I mean, that this is really key to the the accelerator I mentioned in terms of accelerating and Enterprise analytics that we can do this. Um, so I think what's exciting is, yeah. SCP is very important in a future state. It will be extremely
[00:24:00] Important, but SCP and data, sphere, and what we do in sap, analytics, Cloud alone is not enough. We need that complementing environment and and we're currently using snowflake to bring different data together and we're optimizing for the strengths of different platforms. So, obviously for Enterprise analytics where we looking at breath snowflake, with this sort of visualization layer is proving really effective for more traditional applications. And when we gain very deep and supply chain operations, we will continue to use sap. Um, but that sort of how we're balancing the strengths of the 2 Solutions. Know, that's fantastic. So you mentioned cortex and something that, um, we were discussing earlier, right? So there are, there are always in organization, you have technical users, you have business users, and then you have somewhere in the middle Bridge users, who take those business.
[00:24:45] request and translate that because not every business user knows how to write an SQL python 20 and all
[00:24:50] But through the whole concept of, uh, agentic semantic views and all, uh, how do you give those non-technical users ability to query data directly, you know, through the use of Cortex and others stuff. And you mentioned like 96,000 employees, and about less than 10% of them. Are what you call the data experts, the people who can query that so has, how has that number changed through these these programs? And, um, if there are any kpis, you can share with regards to a broad adoption of the data platforms. That's a brilliant question. So, and I think that's really interesting statistic. Um,
[00:25:28] so, when we analyze it,
[00:25:30] 10% of our organization are quite, uh, you know, data scientists or or data experts, which, which we felt was quite significant sort of 8,000 employees, and but that reflected, the importance of data within our our business. So, so we see this opportunity, particularly with genii to sort of democratize access to data, um, and broaden access to data, so the sort of couple of components to that. So the non non-negotiable for us is
[00:25:57] the The Trusted data products, The Trusted kpi. So, um, we need, that's the sort of, um, guardrail that we have to insist on that. All Insight is driven from accurate data, and when we asked factual questions in the organization, we get consistent factual answers.
[00:26:15] Um and then through that standardization, there's definition of kpis we discussed, we can develop those semantic layers so that the um the analytics can understand how we're speaking, as a business, the opportunity we see. So so if we have those sort of structured data foundations, the opportunity we see is then the sort of
[00:26:34] Domain of the the data scientist expert becomes more accessible because of genetic AI. So Ghent of AI is your digital co-worker. It's your cognitive partner that has a set of analytics skills which sort of organ your own skills as a leader. And that means we can open up access to data and democratize data across the company and the role of um us as Leaders. Interrogating analytics is more. What questions do we need to ask? What decisions do we need?
[00:27:00] To support and the AI can sort of take care of the sort of more detailed cognitive aspects. So it's like a very powerful data scientist sitting next to you working on the data for you and so what we don't want to do so we want to be very strict in our guardrails around data definitions and data products, but we don't necessarily want to to limit the extent to which H um AI can generate hypotheses or provide new insight to data. So certainly if we ask AI a factual question we want it to give a factual answer. So you know, if we want the product Revenue, it gives a factual answer but we don't mind Ghent of AI coming up with alternative, hypothesis, new ideas, those those challenged us, um, and, and in fact, those those, we see as the great opportunity,
[00:27:45] So we want AI sort of being coming up with these innovative ideas, not all of them are going to be correct. It doesn't matter because we always have human in the loop, but that must be based on, um, on The Trusted data foundation. And then that's usually empowering to the organization because the democratization is. If you got the power of a really strong, Ghent of AI agent, supporting you any leader within the company can ask quite sophisticated questions for analytics, and that's the kind of opportunity we feel we can exploit. So it's a very exciting. I mean, everyone, here, it's very exciting period to be involved in analytics because of that potential and we get quite excited about the sort of interesting hypotheses that we get out of Ghent. Toi things, we hand thought about come up, you know, expertise which goes beyond what any individual can have. And when you bring
[00:28:30] Those 2 things together between Leeds and the company. It's a huge opportunity for us. You were talking about some numbers. Uh, you you mentioned that quarter of the the company is now using data in some shape or form uh, across the organization. Uh, yes. So that's about. So going from 8,000 data analytics users to somewhere around 24 25,000. That's a 3X increase in in the use of data across and that's fantastic. So let's uh, wrapping it up, right? So I mean at the scale of
[00:29:01] Astra zenica, you know, 100 countries, billions of dollars, every decision can become consequential, right? So what, what Andy Jesse from Amazon talks about 1 door decision, 2, door decision, right? So, the scene that you can't come back from. So, yeah,
[00:29:15] How, what is the general advice? You'll share with the room. How do you build that? Um, what can people take away from this session today? Um, so I think our 2 learning, so we're we're elevating. So by, by looking at Enterprise analytics, strategic analytics, support the vision decisions. We're making 1 door decisions. I think our early early steps. In Ghent of AI were quite tactical decisions. We now want AI to support more strategic decisions. As a repeat myself, the the data Foundation is absolutely critical. Um, if we're not we're not working off a trusted data foundation with a with a common understanding common language. We're just not going to get the right answer to the question. So that's kind of the non-negotiable I think the thing we want to embrace. Um, and I've already mentioned it is this opportunity that generative.
[00:30:00] AI presents in terms of insight we wouldn't have thought of. And our CEO said, a few weeks ago, you know, the thing that excites me about Ai and why he really doesn't want to have too many guardrails on, its usage is each week. It probably comes up with an Insight or something, he would not have thought of, and that in itself has value now, not all of those insights are going to be useful or valuable, but we're sort of, informed leaders, we can make that judgment. But the fact that Joe AI gives us insights, we which are new, which are Innovative. The fact it's kind of another trusted colleague of cognitive expert, who can provide that Insight, um, that's kind of the, the benefit we see. And, and as long as we're doing that of trusted data, um, as I've always said, we we really feel we can Embrace that opportunity. So what I would say to the audience is, is, you know, foundation and work on your day.
[00:30:45] Data.
[00:30:46] But don't don't hold back on the your your ability to embrace Ai and its potential and use your human in the loop judgment to to assess that. What's valid and what's not valid, but don't suppress kind of the exploration of of the technology. It's it's a fantastic co-worker to have in the office with you.
[00:31:05] Fantastic advice Rob, thank you so much for sharing your lessons with us. Um, we'll be available uh, for any chat and uh and the Expo area uh, boot number 808, Rob will be there. So if you have any questions comments, please feel uh free to drop by and we'll be happy to have a chat with you. Thank you so much.
