[00:00:03] Thank you for for joining me today. Um, happy to be here at at Gartner in London. My name is Taylor. McGrath I am a principal field engineer at a boomi and today um I want to have a a practical conversation about uh agentic workflows. Right? So we're going to we're going to be digging into like how we can go beyond just Data Insights and actually execute and act um on data with with agentki. So what we'll cover at a high level today is first kind of the
[00:00:34] The current like shifts and changes that are happening, kind of the the AI mandate. That's kind of given to um to data and AI leaders um, of late, we will
[00:00:45] Kind of Define and um, I like the word demystify, what an agentic workflow actually is like where it makes sense to actually apply, uh agents in existing workflows existing business operations. Um and then lastly I do want to dig into what it actually means and and changes like data architecture wise data, quality wise kind of what level of data quality makes sense for specific AI use cases. I think we hear a lot um like garbage in garbage out kind of these high level like sayings about data quality but we don't actually often get into examples of like what kind of level of data modeling and data quality is required for for certain AI, use cases.
[00:01:29] so, uh,
[00:01:30] to kind of set the stage, you know, over the last decade or so, you know, companies we hear like going through digital
[00:01:38] Transformations. Um, now you were starting to hear a lot more about like, agentic transformation. I think 1 example, uh, is, uh, and even on a lot of people's like lanyards, right? It says like CD AI. Oh, um, we're seeing like, cdos kind of turn into or new roles come up in terms of data and AI leaders. And I think that just speaks to kind of those being Inseparable responsibilities now, right, like, in order to actually get value out of the AI that we are mandated now really to to, to use. Um, we need to make sure that we
[00:02:15] Know, we're we're leveraging quality data and govern data as well.
[00:02:18] um to set the stage a little bit, I guess, in terms of like why now and why the urgency now
[00:02:24] You know, if we look back, um, 10, even even 15 years, when, you know, it was kind of the Big Data age and we had workloads moving to the cloud. A lot of this is because of, you know, data gravity. Let's say of um,
[00:02:40] SAS applications explosion an example that I always talk about. Um, and I actually think it is. The best example is, um, kind of The Rise, um, and Innovation and Technology of of snowflake. I think maybe just because I experienced that like head on as a, as a data practitioner. At the time, you saw, you know, the market kind of changed.
[00:03:00] Because we now have tools 1 that are Innovative in the sense that they, in snowflakes case, separated storage, and compute, the barrier to entry is way lower because I pay just for what I use and it's super easy to use. Um, and so this really like created a whole ecosystem, around the power of the cloud data warehouse, which was tools to help us get data into it tools to help us model data. Once it's their tools to help us get data out of it, right? And consume. Uh and then kind of the observability of the monitoring everything, the governance that goes kind of around all of that. And so then we have data teams that are stacking together. All these different categories of data Tools around their warehouse for really like just the purpose of of insights. Right of
[00:03:45] At the end of the day, we're all still like building.
[00:03:47] Dashboards right? Or at least. That was the case, um, up until recently. And so I used to struggle with that as um,
[00:03:56] you know, a as a data practitioner and and even being now you know working for a vendor is like, okay well we're
[00:04:02] You know we're we're selling the dream here but really it's like it's still just people building dashboards and so there has to be more right than just these kind of insights and then human reasoning and then you know, taking action and and it's you know nothing's back and wait. It's kind of just a a gray area. And so I think what's really exciting now with innovation in
[00:04:22] AI genetic AI. Is that 1? Of course, we can use AI for more productivity in our pipelines. That's great.
[00:04:30] Um but we also are now building data pipelines, for new types of use cases, right? New AI, use cases. So um, such as rack now there's like graph rag, um, and and agentic workflows which will, which will dig into and so I think what
[00:04:46] what there is right now is a lot, a lot of urgency um for uh leveraging agents and this is a little bit meta um, in the sense sorry is that
[00:05:00] Could be my fault.
[00:05:02] Sounds like a, a drum or something. Um,
[00:05:06] This is a, a Gartner quote, basically the saying, on average, uh, last year in 2025 organizations were using, uh, 15, you know, agents in production.
[00:05:15] And that's expected to grow by like 10,000 times in the next 3 years. And so I think, you know, if we think about problems at Enterprises have now, in terms of like data sprawl API sprawl application, sprawl, you know, next is is Agent sprawl and kind of, how do we, how do we manage the complexity, um, of kind of Agents being created everywhere across the Enterprise
[00:05:39] And so, when we think about the Mandate that's coming from above for, you know, a chief data leader, whether that's a CDO, CD AIO, um, from the CEO from the board. Um, right, there's there's a lot of fear I think. Like, of course, we want to have Roi measurable Roi but no 1 wants to be part of the
[00:06:00] In 10 companies um, that that don't that say that they don't have impact from Ai, No 1s, their use cases to be, you know, part of the 90% that don't get to production and so this puts like a really like, um, fine, um, like narrow look at 1 controlling costs. We want to make sure that if we're going to invest in AI. We don't um spend millions and millions just to you know, get very little value out of it. Um and then also in terms of regulations we need to make sure that what we're doing is secure and it's governed and it's audible so really as a data and AI leader. Um you're being evaluated on all 3 of these uh, at the moment.
[00:06:43] So, to dig in a little bit.
[00:06:45] Deeper to when we say demystify an agentic workflow or let's say the approach to building agentic workflows. I want to dig in first to um kind of a fundamental let's say architectural change um that we're seeing and I think the key word I would I would categorize. This is like convergence. So if you think about uh, traditionally in the Enterprise, there are it teams operations teams that build the automation, the workflows that, like power, the business that run the business. So things like if x happens in our CRM, then we're going to do why in our Erp, right? So the the kind of if x then y things that are fast, they can
[00:07:30] Happen in your real time, but these aren't necessarily like smart processes, right? There's no like reasoning happening here. These are the things that just run our business. Um,
[00:07:39] now in parallel, we're also have analytics teams data teams. We're totally different siloed architecture, building analytics pipelines. So we're like replicating everything that's in our source systems. Our operational systems, consolidating that in some data lake or data warehouse, then doing reporting on it. Um and these things can be smart in the sense that we've modeled our data to um essentially mimic our business entities. Um, we can do reasoning, right? Because then you humans are looking at this data. They're looking at the insights, they're digging into the numbers.
[00:08:11] Finding anomalies Etc. And then, and then
[00:08:15] Making and then making a decisions. Um, so what's different? Now, with agentic with agents, potentially replacing humans in, in these scenarios, is that we need to do both. We need to do both in the same place. So we need to be able to access the system of record in real time, but also be able to reason with historical data. Um about that, use case right to actually make smart decisions. Um, fast.
[00:08:44] So, basically, what what that means is that these architectures have to converge, um, and I think there'll be a lot of pressure in the market as well, um, for leaders, to find ways for this architecture, to actually exist together, right?
[00:09:00] So we can do operational and analytical things. Uh, in the same place, we can leverage our analytical data. For our operational. Use cases to make agents work.
[00:09:11] Sorry. Oh, it's my hair.
[00:09:16] Sorry, Tech break.
[00:09:21] Thanks, it's good. It sounded like a percussion or something. Um,
[00:09:25] Okay, so when we're talking about uh an agentic workflow, I've said that a lot already. What does that actually mean? Like does it just mean throwing agents at everything? Um, I think 1 1 thing to take away of when I'm when I'm talking about an agentic workflow. Uh that's actually I think for for most use cases these workflows these processes.
[00:09:45] Should be, um, primarily deterministic, right? Most of the process should not be agentic when you think about, um, a process right now, like a business process, that's automated. Uh, there may be pieces of a business process that have friction now because they require humans, they require reasoning. They require, you know, anomaly detection. Uh Etc. Someone with a very specific specific expertise. Those are the pieces that we want to apply agentic to. Um, the other piece is we know what the x if x then Y is we don't have to use AI to do that and that helps um with kind of bounding the AI that we're using um, and cost control because right now, anytime you use AI, you're using.
[00:10:30] Tokens you're paying for tokens. Um anytime um AI is inferring something instead of just knowing where to go that cost tokens. So for the things that we know what should happen, um, we should build those how we're already building our operational workflows in a deterministic way. Um, for the things that are now, uh, causing friction or are manual or need a very specific expertise, um, to do reasoning. That's where, uh, agentic can come in.
[00:10:58] And so this means um naturally because most of what we're doing is deterministic then we can measure the stuff much easier um and and govern it much easier.
[00:11:09] So here's an example. This is like a financial reporting agent example um,
[00:11:15] And so, if we think about like quarter end year end month end, you know, financial reporting closing the books. Um, you think about the process to get from A to Z. So first, we want to initiate trigger kind of this workflow to start that piece is deterministic. All the pieces here in like light light purple pink, right? Or deterministic. Um,
[00:11:35] Collecting data right? For for most processes, most business processes. We should know where to get our data, we shouldn't need an agent to tell us like, hey, your ticket Data Systems in jira, like we we should know that, um, and we should have a way to, to collect the data that is deterministic. Um, the piece in the middle, this like darker purple to, to validate inputs. If we're thinking about financial reporting, we're thinking about, um,
[00:12:00] We want to detect any anomalies, we want to do variance analysis, versus prior, um, reporting periods to make sure that like what what we're seeing here looks. Um, you know, looks okay compared to what we've done in the past, we want to reconcile, um, you know, invoices with, um, you know, Poe amounts, Etc, um, matching up credits debits, and then the output in terms of auditing what we did. And then the actual delivery of the report is also deterministic, right? So the the only piece in here that we can like bound. Um in terms of AI really is this validation piece uh but in the past all these pieces may have had human stakeholders that were needed um but the pieces that are deterministic we can automate and the
[00:12:45] Piece that's probabilistic. Um, we can, we can leverage an agent, um, a specific, you know, agent with this expertise for that step. So that the stakeholders are only getting involved. Now at that Rapport stage,
[00:12:58] um and of course, like we can even Beyond just outputting a report, there could be steps that push this data back into operational systems, Etc,
[00:13:05] and so, if we're widening this to what's happening right now in
[00:13:11] In Enterprises and organizations that, I think the top this kind of horizontally. I is where what most people are doing. Um, right where we have a chat Bots, we have coding assistance, everyone has clawed, everyone has co-pilot. Um, and that's really really nice. Like it's it's nice that that's becoming table Stakes, like right? If you join a
[00:13:30] Company and they don't have kind of a, any sort of like, Enterprise AI. You might be like, well, how am I going to do my work now? Um, but it's really hard to measure the ROI of that. Like, how, how do you measure actually like, how productivity has changed, um, in in that horizontal level way where you can really measure and see, impact is, when you go deep in the vertical business processes, right? That that your company is is completing the things that are actually running the business. So we talked about, um, a financial reporting agent but also things like, um, you know, invoice reconciliation. Uh, intelligent churn detection. So detecting, uh, based on, for example, like, um, gong transcripts, um, you know, product activity Etc. What what?
[00:14:15] uh, customers, you know may turn, um, and automating some process um, to to retain
[00:14:22] so, um,
[00:14:25] What I want to talk about kind of in the latter half of this session is digging into we just saw you know, an example of an agentic workflow. How does this actually scale across an Enterprise and then how do we uh prepare our data? How do we make sure we're kind of AI ready? Um and for which use cases because I think that's a really like wide and vague thing to say is get your data AI ready. Um, but first, like if we widen kind of the 1 agent workflow we saw um and think about how we kind of orchestrate this and what what this is going to look like across Enterprises? We have uh at the bottom
[00:15:00] Here. Right? Would we consider our our traditional, um, systems inputs, right? Our systems of record, our our databases, maybe our warehouses. Now we have chat Bots, productivity tools, um, you know, file storage, Etc. Um, and at the top, we've got kind of the new, the newer AI type words. Like mCP skills, tools, Etc. Um,
[00:15:23] so what um this shows is really like back to when we talked about the convergence of
[00:15:29] Operational, and analytical architectures Enterprises. Need this kind of, uh, combined Consolidated, unified, active data Foundation, where agents and people can access um directly the the real time.
[00:15:45] Data for these business processes as well as the kind of what I'll call Knowledge base or analytical data sets for reasoning.
[00:15:54] So, um, just a look at what this could look like end to end, um, with boomi. I'll talk through this example and then we'll get into AI Readiness. Um, so if you're looking, for example, we have some Source systems like sap Salesforce like things things, probably a lot of, a lot of our companies use jira files. We need some way to, um, integrate the data into some centralized place. In this case, it could be an existing data warehouse could be, um, a manager act solution so that has based on, you know, Vector database under the hood to act as um, a knowledge base for like a rag type use case.
[00:16:30] And then agents now agents, they're pretty much every vendor here in the hall downstairs, probably has a way you can create an agent, um, and that's okay, right? You don't need to create all your agents, all in leveraging, the same tool, there may be places that make sense to create agents in different areas. Um what's important here is that you can kind of govern and have a bird's eye view. Um overall the agents you're creating so what we call the control tower. So this is where you can see um, who is invoking. Which agents how many times are being invoked, um, cost analysis, right? Kind of the finops of of kind of agentic work in the Enterprise.
[00:17:09] And then lastly, we need to power those agents with metadata with like business context.
[00:17:15] And semantics um of of our actual raw data sets if an agent knows exactly what that data is. And means it's a lot less reasoning and inferring it has to do, which also means a lot less costs, right? For us less tokens.
[00:17:31] All right, so now uh I'm going to get into my my favorite stuff, which is um, data quality and, and data modeling. Um, so we talked a lot about
[00:17:41] Data being AI ready? That's probably on a lot of the, the vendor material down downstairs too. But, but what is this actually mean? And what does it mean? Um, for like let's say different levels of AI use cases. So here we kind of built Out, 3 phases that I'll call clean, connected, and activated.
[00:18:00] And I want to dig into exactly what this means. So if, um, we're talking about clean first and here, I'll say, um, when I think of just like clean and I think of a single data set or single entity, you think of okay? Um,
[00:18:14] The main here, the main thing here I would say is like entity resolution so I don't have duplicates. I have like key fields or key identifiers um, across a data set. Um, really this? This is, I'd say as well as like lineage and understanding where s, where each record comes from is like, the main thing you need to to get started in something like rag, right? So we we need, um, entity resolution uh, across across, let's say, a a noun or an entity. So something like customer.
[00:18:45] Something like contracts for example. Um, now what you may not be able to do yet or at least not with high levels of quality is um, like multihop reasoning. So, if I want to understand for um, uh, a customer, and I have like, maybe a customer 360 use case, I want to be able to understand um all the transactions. They've done with us, all of the open opportunities tied to this customer, um, all their their contracts. Like, what that requires is relationships. And so what that means is, in this, like connected phase, I want my, uh, AI to actually be able to Traverse those relationships, um, and what that means in terms of like, you know, AI use cases Beyond,
[00:19:30] Just rag, there is something called graph rag, which means I'm essentially using a Knowledge Graph, um, to do kind of my, my rag, use case. So that means referential Integrity, in terms of all of my entities, um, relate to each other, and I have those relationships defined, um, is the level of like quality I'd want to be at to do those kind of multi-hop reasoning, use cases.
[00:19:54] And I really love this because my background is data, engineering data modeling. And I remember when kind of all the AI Buzz was first coming out. And I just I, you know, there's kind of a fear, not a fear but I was curious that really like, okay is data modeling as important as as it is for like traditional data engineering and analytics and I think it's
[00:20:15] I strongly believe it's more important like in order for um,
[00:20:20] To make decisions at machine speed, right? We we need our data to be clean. We need to be connected if we're, if we're hopping, if we're doing multi-entity analysis with AI. Um, so I, I don't know. I geek out about that because I I love data modeling and I'm glad it's it's it's super important. The last step when we say activated, this is the piece that is um, I'd say more around process more around, having the architecture pieces in place. So we talked about um,
[00:20:50] That that, you know, an example of an agentic workflow and having like the deterministic pieces in place and being able to audit all of that. Um so once my
[00:21:00] My data is clean and connected. I need to be able to plug that in to or like, say inject the injected pieces into my existing workflows which have existing slas, uh, regulatory requirements, uh, Etc. So that is kind of the, the last stage of like being like fully governed in terms of agentic workflows. Um, I'd say most I know, I'll let you do your own assessment, but most companies, I'd say, are probably in stage 1, or stage 2, or somewhere in between 1 and 2. When it comes to their, like, AI Readiness in terms of in terms of data and data quality.
[00:21:35] Uh I wanted a little bit. This is a this is kind of an example just to just to visualize when I said like things happen at machine speed and this is even just Phase 1.
[00:21:45] Talking about entity resolution. So if you look at across the top, we have like a CRM an Erp.
[00:21:50] A finance system, and, you know, kind of a basic Acme company that maybe is, you know, named different things. And this is kind of a classic Master data, uh, example too. But just shows the importance when we are, um, you know, kind of removing humans from the loop. Let's say so when um, we do have entity resolution here,
[00:22:10] We are able to match these 3, we're able to duplicate. We have survivorship rules built in so that we know um kind of which fields from which systems kind of create that golden record. Uh and then the the AI agent is reasoning on verified data, right? And and produces reliable output, when we don't have this, the a agent um can infer.
[00:22:30] Different things. It can infer that these actually aren't the same thing. These are 3 different things, um, or it's creating, it's missing contacts, duplicating actions. Um, and that depending on what you have automated, um, in terms of what the agent is doing Downstream and executing, um, that that could be really scary, right? That could be, uh, for example, sending duplicate Outreach. Um, your customers get annoyed or emailing them 3 times Etc. Um, so this is just kind of an example of where when I'm talking about entity resolution. Um, how that can actually, um, at machine speed, right? Affect, uh, the business in terms of data quality,
[00:23:07] so, uh, now a little bit of like
[00:23:11] Thinking ahead, talking ahead. This is this is something that's coming up a lot.
[00:23:15] With our customers. Um, is this phrase, you may have already heard of it. If not, it's a Context Engineering and really what Context Engineering is are like the strategies to curate, your raw metadata that describes, you know, your data sets, um curated to be available to um agents like at the time of llm inference. So that means like when the agent is prompted with something um and and starting its reasoning, it has access to the correct metadata. Um, that describes like the data sets, it's about to work with. Um, so this is like, you know, very similar to how like data cataloging and lineage is to
[00:24:00] Um like traditional analytics, workflows Context, Engineering is to agentic workflows, right? And and because and I'd say it's, you know, um exponentially important again because we're we're starting to remove humans from the equation. So the business context matters for for precision and it also matters for cost reduction. Um, the more that an agent is referring the more tokens it's using. Um, and so this is the kind of high level like before like, without business context, right? If you think about like tribal knowledge, um, that's, that's the piece that you are living without. So, if you think about companies that have people that
[00:24:45] Worked for them forever, have the tribal knowledge, and then they leave. And all of a sudden, No 1 know, kind of what's what for certain processes. That's exactly what you're missing out on when you don't apply that semantic layer that that business context to, um, to an agent process.
[00:25:00] And then with it, we get, of course, precision and reduced spending on on tokens. So, I think we're going to be hearing a lot about this. Um, you know, uh, as this, these agentic use cases grow and, and more and more of them, again, get into production. Um, and now the, the, the, the platform that that can deliver kind of a lot of this interconnectivity, um, this is kind of the, the, the boomi platform and starting at the bottom, right? We have that, like, data Readiness, we talked about getting your data, AI ready,
[00:25:30] Um, so that's uh, at the end of pipelines to um, consolidate data into knowledge bases or data warehouses, um, creating a hub for creating golden records, defining that metadata, um, around all of your assets, and then the integration and automation piece to actually create those deterministic workflows and automate them. And then, lastly, the agentic. So the ability to create agents and then even govern, uh, external agents and inject those processes as part of your automation. Um, so that's really like, the ability to combine the operational and the analytical, um, like we talked about in the beginning.
[00:26:08] So um I will close with that and thank you all. Um you want to learn
[00:26:15] More. You want to see a demo? We're at the boomi booth 609. Um,
[00:26:19] Downstairs. Um yeah. Thanks a lot.