[00:00:04] Hello.
[00:00:05] Welcome to our fourth year in a row of delivering. A blueprint story to the Gartner attendees, um, pretty excited about this 1 actually, so, uh, kev's going to talk a little bit about his journey. So, Kevin Smith, the CEO of Tokio Marine. Um, he's been in business. Doing his CDO magic at Tokio Marine for the last 4 years. Um, I can truly say nearly 4 years, nearly nearly 4 years. Thank you. Um, I can truly say that, um, as AI is advancing, Tokio Marine is meeting the moment.
[00:00:39] Um, it's that great Foundation that you put in place. And now you get to tell and share your experiences.
[00:00:45] Is a good and bad with the audience today. So, thanks for coming, thanks for joining us.
[00:00:51] Great, thanks Sue. Um, so as, as Sue said, this is our fourth year doing this together. Um, and uh, this is coming up to my fourth year. Um, at Tokio Marine, um, HCC. And I always like to joke saying, this isn't a typo for those. You don't are not in the insurance industry. Tokyo is, is spelled correctly on the slide. Um, we are a Japanese company, um, but it's so, a westernized view of, um, of how to, um, how to spell Tokyo. Uh, and as you can see the long established company, um, but, uh, HTC we had our 50th, uh, uh, 50th birthday, uh, a couple.
[00:01:30] Couple of couple of years ago and we continue to grow at quite a rapid rate so we're a specialist insurance company and we're we're based out of Houston. Uh H is the Houston bit Houston Casualty Company purchased by Tokio Marine.
[00:01:46] I work out of London. Um, and I'm the the chief data officer for the international segment, uh, of HCC.
[00:01:53] And I won't dwell on um all the numbers and things up there. Um you can you can look us up but 1 of the things I will point out is that we're very diverse company in terms of insurance lines. Uh we over 100 120 lines now. Um that we do that raises some very interesting data charges. Um we have lots of different systems and I'll go into that.
[00:02:15] In a little bit of detail. Um, but yes, so if you like to, um, move on, um, to the next 1. Um, so how is how is it sort of evolved? Uh, so I joined back in 22 and I we've got a little bit more of a detailed timeline. But if you think of the role of a CDO, uh, in their sort of classical sense, it was very much about um, governance. Um, what's often referred to as the sort of Defense side of of CDO, very much around implementing those gdpr rules, but very, very defensive, um, understanding the quality, the definitions of data lineage, whereas it will come from all about building up the trust, um, in data. So that was the first thing we sort of got involved in. So it's very much about that compliance risk, um, of data.
[00:03:00] And then as my team began to evolve, um, and um, I was expanding expanding the team. We then started to get into the more, um, offense side of, uh, of of data. Um, when we're looking at business value, uh, a lot more, and now, as we get into the era of AI, we built a lot of, uh, a lot of not just infrastructure but actually, the team itself evolved into being able to govern, um, start to govern our, our AI era. And now we are genuinely scaling that up. So, um, that's, that's really important.
[00:03:33] Next 1, please s.
[00:03:35] um, so um, we thought this would be nice because I think we've had this every year and this is obviously continues to evolve this uh, this timeline and um,
[00:03:45] So, I won't go back over because I've repeated some of it but but essentially, I was very blessed when I joined, um, HCC. And they had already set up a data executive committee who had been part of the process of actually deciding that we need to hire a CDO. So I had a very eager executive. Eager to, um, eager to get going with. What, what, why do we need a CDO? And what what are you going to do for us? And that came very much around. Let's get the, let's get the foundations in place. Let's do that defensive work. And then, as we started to evolve, uh, and hiring the right people, we turn ourselves into sort of the value. Add, um, my background is architecture and database development software development. So, I'm sort of quite comfortable, both both sides. And, um, really if I just sort of move forward with
[00:04:30] Along along the timeline there. Um all the way through that Journey. I've had Quest alongside me. So 1 of um 1 of the other exciting things that happened. I realized day 1. When you start looking, what software have I got? Um, with all the purchased, um, Irwin. Um, I was very familiar with Erwin as a sort of data modeling, um, Suite. But also we had this, um, this data intelligence tool, um, that I've been tracking, um, through my sort of, um, previous previous previous roles at other companies. So I was very excited that that we had um, uh, we had this Tool Set. Uh, nobody really knew what to do with it or actually no 1 was really using it. So that's the first thing that that I did. We started to actually document, um, all of our all of our, our glossaries, and our and the C,
[00:05:15] catalogs and the data dictionaries straight into that, so,
[00:05:18] So that was a great start. Um, and now where we are really is all about AI
[00:05:23] You probably May probably may have noticed that some themes going through the conference this year last year, um, AI a lot of AI hype and also, a lot of getting data ready for AI. We're all living it. Now, I'm, I'm sure we all are. Uh, so we've got ourselves in that in that position. And we are, um, we are utilizing all of the metadata, all of the foundations that we've been Gathering across all of our systems, um, into into our snowflake environment, but using quest to bring that all together and that gives us a really interesting, sort of blueprint for what you can do with AI because
[00:06:00] We really understand our own data that's really helpful.
[00:06:04] So let's talk about, um, our AI strategy. Um,
[00:06:09] The, I've heard the exact talk about these as a swim Lanes, which is does make me chuckle a little bit because we started off with a pyramid. I've seen this slide now in many different ways which is also kind of an example of how fast everything's moving and even the, even even the pitches are changing at rapid rate. But we, we we needed to get ourselves and I'm sure everyone's been through this this process and it's it's quite challenging at the moment, to how do we Define ai, how can we sort of break it up? So we can sort of think about it slightly in in, in a in a smaller.
[00:06:43] Chunk size.
[00:06:44] so,
[00:06:45] Personal AI, probably all using co-pilot. You're using it for personal for personal things. So, that's quite straight forward. Um, most, we've rolled out copilot across Office 365. Some of this is just done to us, we know, we just get it, um, by default. Um, so that's really, that's really useful. People are using it for reading. Large documents summarizing, large documents.
[00:07:06] Uh, improving emails, summarizing emails, that's the personal AI side of it. Um, the operational AI is probably where I'm now spending most of my time with, with my team. This is the agentic side uh, of things. As how we
[00:07:20] How we use our data? How do we build agents to operate on that data? Uh, as part of our part of our processes?
[00:07:28] And the differentiate differential.
[00:07:30] AI is really where where are we doing? Some very clever stuff that I'm not allowed to talk about. Um, but um, this is the competitive Advantage. Um, things that we are building, um, again all built on on on data. So those foundations that we've been working on for quite some time now are really coming um, home to roost. Um, so we've got a few principles as well and um, these These are changing as well. Some of these slides are around the um, 6 weeks old. Um, and that's a kind of idea of how how things are, how things are changing. But I, I won't read all of these out, but um, some of the ones I really wanted to really pull out reimagining work with AI. Um, I'm sure you've heard this over.
[00:08:15] Um, over the last few days but it's not about um, lifting and shifting a, uh, an existing business process. You have the opportunity now with AI to completely reimagine, the amount of the conversations I have with um with stakeholders uh and often my conversation leads uh around. Um they don't actually know what they can have, right? So I'm very keen to show them what they can have and then it suddenly the conversation roles um oh I never need to do that. Yeah, okay and then it sort of. Um so if you if you sit down in a sort of a classical
[00:08:51] Analytical way and Analysis way. Say what is it? You want, they'll tell you what they know not. Not what they what they can possibly have so reimagine.
[00:09:00] Really, really important, um, principle. Uh, the other, the other 1, I wanted to call out was scaling with discipline.
[00:09:07] Uh, we are not a software company. We are not going to spend millions and millions um, on R&D. So we're not going to try and build something um, that uh, other companies like Quest can do, um, they have the, they have the budgets and the R&D budgets of, obviously there's lots of companies doing this. But this is a really, um, important point that we sort of gathered relatively quickly. But quite a few people were struggling with it, but so we work with partners and we adopt what they have. Um, the last thing we're going to do is we're going to build only going to build if it's a real competitive advantage. And um, I don't think we're going to come up with the most unique ideas.
[00:09:45] Compared to some other some other companies we want you guys to reimagining, not creating processes that already exists. Yeah, absolutely. And and the, and the last 1, I wanted to call out um, was was really um, on the people's side.
[00:09:57] Absolutely. Probably the most important thing. And what I spend most of my time on nowadays, I've I've gone from a team of 1, so if you can give myself, it was 2. Um, when I joined, um, I now have a team of 31
[00:10:10] So it's, uh, it's growing quite quite rapidly and I am encouraging them. Um, I'm giving them the, the training materials, the training platforms, the
[00:10:21] areas to synthesize data, um, as all part of what, um, part of their sort of ecosystem now, um,
[00:10:30] Essential because they just laping this up. Um, so that's that's great.
[00:10:34] so,
[00:10:36] let's move on to, um, another slide that evolves every year. This has become a bit of an in-house joke for me because, um, um, it's almost every year, the board decided that they need to know about data in a different way. Previously, it's always been about trust, um, we've used different terms but it's it's really always been about trust. Um, and as we've evolved and we've got our snowflake platform bigger and better. And, and and the messaging around data products, particularly has been really helpful for this is, is really what it boils down. Uh, to now is is the data available.
[00:11:15] Can we trust it? And can we consume it? So it addresses all of the needs of my stakeholders. Also the from the governance point of view as well. Inside of these there's more measures but the the trust 1 is the 1 that you've probably seen you talk about before and really what we're drilling down into there is uh do we have good definitions? Do we have good quality around it? Do we have ownership, do we have stewards? And what's that lineage? Where is it coming from? Um those are sort of some of the main factors that build up that that trust, but we have thousands of data points but we have, we think about 300 critical data points. That's what we, that's what we focus on, and we're focusing on this in our snowflake platform. Not our old Legacy, um, warehouses
[00:12:00] Um, but we bring everything into our snowflake platform and we can measure from there. That's
[00:12:05] that's how we do it.
[00:12:06] It seems sort of landed quite well with the board for now, so we'll we'll we'll see what happens.
[00:12:13] I'm going to leave you to the next slide. All right, so we're going to talk about data products. That's the main topic of our presentation today. And before I get started, I just want to see a c, a, a show of hands of how many people are developing data products right now internally,
[00:12:28] That's awesome. That's great and out of out of those hands. Um how many of you are building? Really sustainable data products that are measured for value on a regular basis. Kind of shared around the organization that's great. And let me ask 1 final question.
[00:12:45] How many, um, can do that in less than 4 to 6 months?
[00:12:52] That's awesome.
[00:12:53] Would love to hear more about that. What we typically hear is that it's taking clients about 4 to 6 months to to really have a good sustainable data product, that delivers value, that's governed that has a trust score around it and um that can be applied right away.
[00:13:09] So that has been a big Focus for us. Let's talk about the different types of data products, so this year we've seen them evolved from, you know, just really basic data sets where you're looking at the raw data. And the raw data is feeding, many different data sets and it's probably an extract or a feed. That's where they started. And I love. Kevin always says that in the past.
[00:13:30] We used to the business needed that data immediately and we'd give them the data and they would say I'll figure it out for myself, and they never figured it out for themselves. So, that's what a data product does it structures that data? It answers the question that they need and it's all put together for them. So they don't have to figure it out on by themselves Master data products, um, very similar to your master data, internally customer product party, that sort of thing are your master data products and you build them once and you upgrade them and you share them Astros the business units and you're not starting from scratch, every time. Insight based data products are answering a, a direct outcome from the question that's being asked. And, um,
[00:14:15] I'll talk about in a moment. Our new data product Factory gives you a gen AI approach of creating a data product. Um, so they get back. Exactly where that information is, where that data is and the guardrails around that data by asking Genai the question.
[00:14:32] And then, finally composite aggregate get data products that's coming from multiple different systems. And um, and maybe it's a data product that creates another data product, but their Composites and they're usually Enterprise wide looking at Enterprise wide stats and insights to deliver on that data product. So to make that a little bit more real for you guys today, Kevin's going to talk about a couple of data products that they recently built.
[00:14:59] Indeed. So
[00:15:00] Party 360. Um, it's actually got an internal name of product 1, which is quite quite funny. I think only because um, it's part of a big transformation program that's going on and it's the first product. Um, that's officially off the off the rank. We have, we have built other products in in, in the past in, in what, I'd call, the sort of old-fashioned way, but these are the New Generation, Um, that we're building, um, using Ai and all everything we've sort of learned over the last last few years. Um, but partially 360 is, uh, is that classic, uh, glue of all of insurance. Uh, we call it parties as a general term because we have lots of different party roles that we interact with party types. And, uh, we have
[00:15:43] At least 15 transactional systems.
[00:15:45] We have 21 systems in total. I'm bringing into Snowflake and of those 15 transactional systems. There's no master data to manage those at the moment. So
[00:15:55] This is, and that's probably unrealistic ever going to happen. So every system, because we got such a diverse portfolio because we have so many, um, different transactional systems that will continue to be the case. So we have to resolve Downstream
[00:16:10] And that's what, that's what we do.
[00:16:12] Now, this used to be your classic, fuzzy logic fuzzy matching process and you'd probably go out and buy a uh, a big MDM system to do this for you. We're not doing that we're building it ourselves and um, we're doing that using AI graph databases snowflake,
[00:16:30] Just all kinds of different combinations that we can pull together and we have all of this coming into 1 1 Place. Uh, and I have 1 dedicated, um, member in my team that's actually been resolving all this using AI, uh, to resolve hierarchies naming missing, addresses everything. And we can do a phenomenal amount, um, without going out to, um, large data suppliers because it's all out there in the large large language models. Now, what this also does is as well as giving us this defined um uh an exceptionally good hierarchy. Uh, we can have multiple hierarchies because nobody wants 1 hierarchy, you go and ask the finance department, they want something different, you go and talk to marketing. They want something different. So we build it in a way that allows us to have multiple
[00:17:15] Um, hierarchies um, as well.
[00:17:17] You also get out of it, a mapping. Uh, so the mapping back to all of the 15 systems. So if we still got data sitting in our raw, in our raw layer, in our raw products, we've got the key now to go back to that, we haven't changed anything so we can just, we can just pull that out. So,
[00:17:34] I think, I think everyone wants 1 of these. And um, when I explained this to, um, 1 of my colleagues, um, in Dusseldorf last week and said, we're, you know, this is on its way and he's like, oh wow, you know, I've been waiting 5 years for this, uh, I said, yep. Well, it's it's definitely coming. And, um, so this is, um, this is I say our first product that some should be with us in probably about 6 weeks, that kind of speed. So let's talk about um, another 1 uh, the financial data Hub, which is
[00:18:00] A relatively, um, uh, New Concept. Well, it's a, it's a re-imagined. Um, it's a reimagined data product from, uh, something we've had previously simplifying it, um, because the more complex it gets, uh, the harder it becomes to get data in and get data out. So we've learned a lesson over that over the last few years. So, we're, we're reimagining, what Finance, um, department needs. They came up with the name, um, financial data Hub and, uh, it's, it's great. Uh, in simply it's a, it's a sub Ledger for us. Um, so rather than putting a lot of complexity in it, we we reflect this in the sub Ledger and then that goes on to feed our main, our main Ledger,
[00:18:40] and um, what we have between our golden, uh,
[00:18:45] Um, what we call Level 3 but golden. Um, um,
[00:18:49] Uh, the golden band of data and the financial data Hub is is essentially a contract, a data contract that sits between. So, we're working with the finance department. Um, now to say, what is the, what are the data points you need to feed into this financial data Hub, and we will provide that all up to you in in a data product, which
[00:19:09] Imagine the moment I think it's called L3 Finance. It's uh we're working on that.
[00:19:14] But as we, um, um, as this sort of um, this is a really good example, where, um, Finance only need a finite amount of data. So they can specify that that contract and we can then sort of push that data through the hard, work happens in all the data.
[00:19:30] Products to pull it all up to a conformed model and then it goes through from there. So, hopefully, a couple of real examples. Yeah, great examples.
[00:19:40] All right. Um, you I'm sure you're all hearing so much about the semantic layer and the ontology layer Etc. How this really helps the data products is that you're going to get that context immediately when you're creating the data product because the data product is drawing off of your logical information, your logical model. So it creates a data product spec. And what is the semantic layer? The semantic layer is the translator from the data to the business. It's it translate. What is this data about if you don't have that semantic
[00:20:15] Thick layer that contacts layer. The AI models themselves are going to go awry. They're not going to understand the language of your business, they're only going to understand the data that it sees the ontology, layer combines the business information with that context. And it starts to really represent how you reflect on your data and what it means to your organization. And then that contextual data, layer is where your end users are working through, uh, chat GPT or something. That gives them a way to call upon the data through the lens of the business in that contextual layer. So, all all 3 of those, in the quest, data product, Factory feed a vector database, so that llms can run up against them.
[00:21:00] And really understand it from a context perspective from a trust perspective um and know that it's going after the right data. So we call this trust by Design, right? The trust is built into the platform itself. And what we do was we took all of our Point products and put them onto the same platform so that we can use mCP to call upon those capabilities and we look at it more from a capability perspective. Now versus a point, product perspective, and then we build AI on top of that. So, we view that, that layer, that base layer of the data management platform as the table Spa Stakes. Data lineage inventory, business glossaries. Those are our commodity now
[00:21:45] We want you guys working with us on the AI side of the house, customizing, and building what you need off of those capabilities. Um, the third first thing that we built was this automated data product Factory, which I'm going to talk about in a moment. And the quest data modeler, which is released today at the conference conference. So, um, a lot of you have probably heard of Erwin data modeler. That's us. Um, uh, and we have since built a catalog in the platform Etc, where we've converted those Point products. But, um, we have taken our on premise data modeler. Put it in to cloud-based and now you can create your data models using AI um you can update and and chat your way through the creation.
[00:22:30] Of that data model. There's some other significant features but it's meant to be a lightweight fast way of modeling and if you think about it, throughout throughout the years, um,
[00:22:42] Prior to, uh, the snowflakes and the data platforms of the world that we have today, everybody was doing data modeling for their data warehouse. They needed to do those data models for their data warehouse. Then the snowflakes and such came along and said, you don't need to do that modeling anymore. We'll take care of it for you. And now ai is saying, I don't understand this data and I need the context and I need those classifications. So data modeling is making a comeback, but it has to be fast and it has to be lightweight.
[00:23:15] And more users need to use it than just 1 Department of Enterprise architects.
[00:23:21] so, um,
[00:23:22] Come see us by the booth if you want to learn more about that Quest data modeler, uh it just went GA today.
[00:23:31] Uh, the second build that we put on top of that data, the platform was this automated data product build, this is what it does. And end user can come in and request the type of data that they need. So for Kevin's example, you can come in and say, give me everything around that general ledger process, um, or around party data. And it will create for you based off of your Enterprise logical data model, the entities and attributes that are needed for that new data product.
[00:24:00] Um and the next thing that it will do is go out to openai and bring back some entities and attributes that maybe you didn't know that needed to be a part of your ontology packages it all up. It it finds the physical information so it goes out to a catalog or out to your metadata metadata inventory and finds. And tells you, where is the data that you need for that new data product and then wraps the guard rails around it. So what are the gotchas that I need to be worried about this? Does it have P? Um, Pi information in it and it gives you all the good tags around that data product. And that's where we're talking about going from months to minutes and creating a data product.
[00:24:41] I'm going to add to that thing, and I didn't tell you about this.
[00:24:45] Because we've been, um, we've been working with with Sue and, and question, the whole team. We've got access to this. And we've been playing around. Um, this has been absolutely great great and, um, 1 of the other features that, um, uh, you didn't mention is the ability to synthesize data into it. Now when you're working with product owners and I that question, I mentioned earlier that they don't know what they can have, sometimes, it's very difficult to put real data into that straight away. Um, you just got to jump through quite a few compliance Hoops when you're doing that sort of development, but be able to synthesize, um, straight away and go. Is that what you meant? Yeah. Oh no, but could you do this? And then I say you're off, so I'm sorry. Yes, it creates synthetic data. Thank you, actually.
[00:25:26] Um and then the 5 minute warning, okay? The the
[00:25:30] Another huge plus is that it's available in the marketplace so it's going to tell you right away.
[00:25:37] If it senses that there's another data product that, hey, you have another data product like this, don't recreate the wheel here, and then you can reuse that data, product update, that data product. It gets a trust score and um you're you're sharing that data product, so it's scaling for AI, we need that speed.
[00:25:55] Without speed trust is um, you're not going to have trust and without trust, it's a liability, what? You don't want to do is sacrifice the non-negotiables, which are
[00:26:07] Um, regulations and, uh, safety basically around your AI model. So that is our
[00:26:15] We're trying to move up pace and we're trying to keep up with the trust.
[00:26:20] So the last thing that I would just want to explain a little bit to you, probably hear a lot about a control plane. If you think about an airport, an airport has those physical objects. It has airplanes. It has runways. It has Gates
[00:26:32] It also has a control plane that control plane is TSA, it's the FAA, it's the Watchtower. You need them both, you need them both to get on your journey, to get to your gate on time and to be safe, um, on your next flight. So, that's how we think of data. Um, we want to wrap that control, plane around the data as easily, um, as possible, which is pretty easy. Now, with AI, and the great new agents that we're creating
[00:27:01] So that is it. Um, we do have 3 minutes left, if anybody has any questions? Um, or you can just come on up here afterwards and I was I was just going to mention um 1 of your the earliest slides about trust and speed. Uh some something we were talking about a little bit earlier 1 of the things. I um I managed to do it felt like there was actually a window of opportunity where I could reimagine or actually redo all of the security around um uh around snowflake. So I inherited. Um, I inherited a big project um, on snowflake, I created a new account.
[00:27:37] Um, in Snowflake, if you if you know how it works, you can have um different types of accounts. So we built a new account and this was like, this is what we're going to. This is
[00:27:45] What building forward will be be like, so we rebuilt the whole our back security model and also automated with some tools um around that. Because as soon as I told the dbas this is this is the security level. I want to see, they were like, oh my word, it's going to take us ages and then we worked with a um, a partner who, um, automated it all for us and um, built in streamlit. And, um, so now we just fill in a form. Go through our data design Authority and then it can just um, it can build it. So when you worry about that speed um and the trust um around it. Yeah, do look for ways. Um, yeah, don't don't don't don't compromise would be my, my advice security area for sure. Yeah, a lot of value there. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
[00:28:30] Thank you, Kevin pleasure. All right, and thank you for joining us today. Come on up. If you have any questions or sear, thank you.