[00:00:05] Good afternoon. Uh, my name is Jordan Van Horn. I'm the CEO and co-founder of Monte Carlo, um, and I just want to welcome you all as a great event. And I'm really excited to see so many people in the room. Um Toyota Motors, Europe and iconic company 25,000 employees, 53, 53, facilities, or 53 countries. Excuse me with, with 8 facilities. Um, and so you can imagine that the data and analytics and AI use cases are Vast at this organization. Running a, an Enterprise platform like that is incredibly complex. And today, you're going to hear hear from tiari, um, who's actually leading that charge Head On leveraging Tools like money.
[00:00:45] Carlo data to deliver reliable and trusted trusted data and AI products. So I want to welcome Terry up.
[00:00:52] Thank you.
[00:00:55] Thank you, Jordan. So just a quick word about me. So my name is Terry Martin so I'm um, I'm French speaking, so we can recognize my accent. Um, I've been working in that role actually as head of data and AI for actually for 4 years. So I'm not actually an IT guy I come from R&D. So I've been working for 25 years for Toyota and 20 years. Actually uh, developing car designing cars working also in the plants in the manufacturing facilities. So um, yeah, the the third of values and what they represent, it's really ingrained because also I lived in Japan. So
[00:01:30] This other big impact, uh, on the employees of Toyota, many employees of Toyota, actually based actually in Brussels. Uh, but also from manufacturing facilities, they also go to work, uh, in Japan to also get the, uh, the values of Toyota.
[00:01:45] Um, now about Toyota, so as Jordan said, um we we are big in Europe and so we are number 2 in the market. Uh, in market share at 7.2%, we sell 1.2 million cars per year in in Europe, um and amongst them about a million is built uh, in in Europe. So we are not importing cars from Japan. Of course, we we are importing Lexus and all the models. But this is a small part, this is 20% of our volume, all the rest is built.
[00:02:15] In Europe, that means we we have our supply chain in Europe, we have our very strong logistic in Europe, we have 8 factories, um, to making transmissions and engines and the rest are actually building cars. Um,
[00:02:31] We're also exporting to 53 countries and then we have a little bit less than uh, yeah. 2,600 uh, dealers dealerships. Uh, all this is actually, um, producing a vast amount of data. Um, if you imagine, we have a roughly at every moment in time 250,000 cars in the supply chain. So either as components going towards the plant, or as finished car in the logistics Pro,
[00:03:00] So this is just to give you a scale of 3 um of the Enterprise. Um that's the mission of the data and analytics team or data and AI team now because we're also changing slowly on them. Um, we want to enable anyone in uh, the organization. It's easy to use trusted and valuable Ai and data products. So we are really there to enable. So as much as possible sometimes we we build also AI actually be mostly do that now but our ultimate goal is that we want the business to be able to build by themselves. Um trust that the variable Ai and data product, that means governance is very important for us. Um, I will talk a lot about about governance. Uh we need to get the the foundations, right? So
[00:03:45] um,
[00:03:46] I'm looking at the team itself. Um, data analytics team is actually made of of 4 teams. Um the first 1 is taking care of the data architecture and um the data governance and uh AI governance as well. So it's really a team taking care of also the Enterprise data model. So this is really the people looking at the uh which data should be in the platform in in in in what form um and the also on the data catalog, the data Marketplace.
[00:04:20] The second team is uh, is there to deliver data products. So here, um, now we are changing slightly. Our delivery method
[00:04:30] But basically, they are building data products, okay? Um, for the business or with the business. So we have different models, depending on the capability of the business, third team is taking care of the AI and Innovation. That is the team which is the closest to the business. Uh, this is where we have data translators, we have more people talking with the business on how to uh transform an idea or even to generate ideas with the business and transform that into a, a data problem or an and AI solution. So here we have data translators, we have PMS and we have also data scientists. That's why we do also a lot of prototyping, uh, to validate, um, that, uh, use cases are okay.
[00:05:15] And, um, the final team is the data and the engineering. So here it is with the people who are managing the platform, so they they directly lead, uh, all the tools that we have like Snowflake and data EQ and so on. And uh, they also keep the data products running. They will bring actually things to production. So what is built by the AI Innovation team or the data product delivery when it moves to production? It moves to the last team and they are the ones who actually do, uh, what's required to keep, uh,
[00:05:48] Uh, everything in production.
[00:05:51] That's a bit. Our, our Enterprise data looks like so, um, actually, this is an interesting image, um, because
[00:06:00] When I was a kid, I used to play a lot with Lego and I had actually 2 big buckets of of of Lego blocks.
[00:06:07] And when I wanted to build something that only 1 option is to take the buckets and then to throw everything on the ground and then to start to sort my my Lego blocks to find what I need to build what I want. And actually the data in Toyota is a bit like that. So um, of course we are not working this this paper today, there is already a lot of system, a lot of applications managing the supply chain Logistics. Uh, but these things are living in Mainframe or as400 or Oracle like very old or Legacy system. But there are running today still in Cobalt and but that is actually that is actually the pulse of the company that is what is delivering value.
[00:06:46] Still there is data there, but where is this data image bucket and what data exists? So we know there is a huge amount of data but to access it, that's a bit difficulty. If you want to build a powerbi report or an AI model, of course, you need data. So and uh, and that's a bit the situation that we've been facing in the last years and for this situation, actually, um,
[00:07:09] That's the typical challenge that, that we were facing in the last year. Um,
[00:07:16] if you want to combine data from different system, different application, like for instance,
[00:07:21] Which cars did we sell in Germany last year? And uh, what were the vehicle specifications? So uh, you know which
[00:07:30] Accessories. And what, what creates of the car. And if you want to combine that with some other Enterprise data, like quality or supply chain,
[00:07:38] Typically, um, you have different business unit in the interest that in different uh, questions and they will actually build this. It different data pipelines. And then ingesting data in different data, silos actually, either on Prem or mssql, or in the cloud and, um,
[00:08:01] By doing so then what you will see is actually we start to multiply the amount of copies of the data. So we end up with a lot of copies of the data so which uh brings 2 problems 1 is the quantity of data. So,
[00:08:15] then you have terabytes of data that are duplicated, but the biggest problem is if you're dealing with, uh, customer data
[00:08:23] Then you don't want to to have this data on many, many system. You only you want to govern it, you want to have it only on 1 System.
[00:08:30] So then the the next phase from all these silos is actually we end up in powerbi and powerbi for Toyota, it became a bit like a, a new data warehouse that people just go to powerbi to actually look for the right report and then click on export to Excel. And then that's, I think it's the case for many people. Um, and then, then up, actually, this is, is that data again non-government data, because you are downloading from enterprise system into your own laptop. And again this data
[00:09:00] Is not governed, it's used to create uh, pivot table. Maybe from scratch. Maybe the same pivot table every month and it becomes a normal job of someone to every month download the same reports, combine them in Excel, create recreate this pivot, and then finally provide a nice PowerPoint for the management. So, um, yeah. What what are the consequence after that? Also this data goes to Poria Excel even access database. We could find uh people want to take shortcuts. So that's the issue. So a lack of quality lack of trust, actually lack of governance in the data and we moved away from this.
[00:09:39] we still have this problem because we are migrating away from that 1, but the new platform, um,
[00:09:45] I will skip the animations so that I will explain faster like this. Um the first thing that we put is on top is the is the data governance and our data strategy is based on data governance. So that's the first thing that we wanted to get right? And why did we choose that path? Because with the old way once you wanted to use um customer data to to run some AI. Then you you are facing legal division. Why do you want this data? Where are you going to store it? Is it cyber secure. Is it safe. Uh what's the purpose? Do we have the content and all these things which makes actually very difficult if you want to uh to do several AI, you have to duplicate each time and repeat the process. So we wanted to move away from that and then to have actually uh the
[00:10:30] Concept of uh, sorry.
[00:10:33] Privacy by Design. So we are abiding to this principle. There are several principle of privacy by Design like encryption at rest and Unicity of data and so on I will not go through all of them. Um what's the change that we brought uh at first we do the 1 time, ingestion of data so we don't ingest the same data 10 times or even 2 times we only ingest 1 time so we take the from the main frame really from the source of the data. We take the ground tools and we ingest that into our data platform. So we have then several data pipelines which are actually bumping the data from the systems sending that to a central repository. Um, what we want to have there is actually
[00:11:15] Zero copy cloning um and building data products in a central storage and this is to enhance the data sharing.
[00:11:23] Um, access to the data we applied and role based access control, which is not the case. With the, of course, powerbi is providing role based access control, but it's just a permissions in in SharePoint. But here we applied at the um, actually at the level of the data catalog itself. That's why we Define who has access to which data
[00:11:44] And finally, the data is then used uh either for bi workloads, but also machine learning but also geni, so then uh, we make it available like that.
[00:11:55] that's a bit, the
[00:11:57] History of our data platform. When we started.
[00:12:00] 22. Um,
[00:12:02] Actually, I remember coming to Garner for the first time and trying to get all the information on how to build a good data platform and where to start. And so on. And, um, here, actually on this axis, you have 2 axis data, maturity is the horizontal axis, and the vertical axis is the AI maturity. So we have some tools at the Gartner to measure that and it's like, um, self, um, survey actually that we can, we can do with the team, but that gives a good a good image. And we started really very low. Just some awareness. And for the first 3 years, actually, we we went from 22 to 25.
[00:12:38] Before we focus actually on getting the data AI, ready? So lots of people say we should go for ai ai.
[00:12:45] I always tend his first. Let's let's understand first to have the right foundation. So intentionally we go first horizontal, and then we move vertically. So that's the, these are the 2 steps. So it's very easy to understand. Now we are in the and we are
[00:13:00] Actually last year with a slightly better than Gartner Benchmark, comparing the manufacturing but still there is not a big gap between Toyota and the rest. Um, now where we are. Okay, we are we are somewhere here and we want this this line. So this is the plan for the 3 for the next 3 years. Um and we want to basically scale uh scale AI. Um,
[00:13:22] So next step, see we improve the the data Readiness and scale it up.
[00:13:28] That's the vision for our data mesh.
[00:13:30] um,
[00:13:31] These slides by the way is are the ones that uh that I'm showing to business inside of Toyota to Executive or to people? That's what we give in training when we explain. So you, you see exactly what employees, uh, see, and we try to again, make it easy for people to to understand what we are doing. So, here are concept is really like a USBC Hub. You can plug in a new domain, a new data domain. You can plug some geni, or some application or some bi, a new bi solution is plug and play. And it works like that and that's all architecture is based on that. So it's very modular.
[00:14:08] And um, talking about architecture. So uh this concept of uh, USB hub.
[00:14:15] You can see here the command backbone which is uh um actually 1 1 governance, which is the same for all domains. So for manufacturing for sales for customer data is is the same governance. There are no different governance for different data. Set is the same standard and not only for third time, Brussels in the head office, but all the authorities in Europe.
[00:14:39] Here, what we do is actually this this Plug and Play system is that we create this data domains and uh, and they are owned by the business. So data domain could be manufacturing. It could be sales could be marketing. And here, what we do is to, um, make sure that the data domain has owners data product owners, uh, and they take
[00:15:00] Ownership of their data. It's not an it matter. It's a business matter. Um, for the data ingestion, we we help them, uh, because getting data from Mainframe into snowflake. This is not, this is not a job of the business. So we provide the necessary support from data engineering team. Um, this really data engineering job and then when the data is in Snowflake, what we do is to build, uh, data products. Um,
[00:15:27] Inside of snowflake. So typically we use, we use DBT because we want to standardize the code this data products when they are available.
[00:15:35] They are published into the data Marketplace um which is available to every employee. So this is a 1 common place where people can see what's available and they can
[00:15:45] Go to Circuit. It's like Amazon website, you can just amazon.com, you can just go and say, okay, I want a new phone but in your card is the same here. Uh, it's the same principle and on this backbone, then we have more bi connected. Um, we have for data analytics, we have data EQ solution, uh, that we are using. This is actually providing the um, the workspace for people to cooperate. Uh, and to develop a python code.
[00:16:13] For data quality Monte Carlo. This is the important is, once you have data products in production that is backbone, of course, you want to know what's going on with this demo.
[00:16:24] And then we have also our agents. They are just plugged in onto the back bonus. So um,
[00:16:31] And uh, sharing data with third party uh and also other company groups. Uh we use data clean rooms. Um and we have also um yeah, data sent out to towards uh, applications using an integration platform. And once we have these right for 1 dumaine, actually, after that, it's just duplicating the domain and it's just actually, it's programmatic, it takes about 3 days.
[00:16:57] Um, with the meeting and the business trip to create a new domain to 1 board, a new country. So it goes very, very fast.
[00:17:06] back to the Lego, uh,
[00:17:09] So, what we are doing now, with this Lego bricks analogy. So I explained that okay, we
[00:17:15] Big buckets. What we are doing by getting all the data in in Snowflake? Um, my team. So, the data team, uh, first is taking all this like a bricks apart and then, uh, starting them basically. And what we create actually is, uh, we create foundational data products like more like, uh, like a Lego set. Um, so for instance, you want to build a little car. Then you can take the vehicle 360 and in there, you have all your components or your Lego bricks or, or your data elements that you require to build, uh, a car. And then you can you can combine and vehicle 360 with sales 36060. And that's how you can actually we can compose. And actually, that's what we want to provide in the data Marketplace. Mainly so that people
[00:18:00] people can actually business team, can build the
[00:18:03] Use case that they want so they can build a little car that they want or a little truck that's completely up to them if they need us to build for them. Yeah, we can we can say okay we are present, we can do but typically we want to leave it that to to the business because the business usually they don't always know what they what they want.
[00:18:23] Um, for the data mesh what's inside so far, we have 130 data products and that's it's centrally in, uh, in our platform. All manufacturing plants data is uh is ingested. We have also connected the vehicle data. So when you drive a Toyota, all your trips, this is available and we have also the customer consent data, which is ingested as well into the platform.
[00:18:45] And all this is shared with all the local markets so you have 28 markets and just but 5 4 reference but actually it's it's many, many countries and then we have this data clean rooms to share for this insurance services and and other Finance providers.
[00:19:01] now, back to the topic of the, um,
[00:19:05] Of today. So which is about the third of values that have been talking a bit. So, this is something that you will see if you go to Japan in the third Workshop, you will see this good products good thinking which basically means, uh, okay, just think deeply what you are doing. Uh, and when you produce something do it, think about it. Don't just do your job. But think so, if you build a data platform,
[00:19:30] Okay, just think deeply and then make the right decision. Don't just take the first thing that that comes to your mind. Um, the TPS, um, is, actually, that's something you can. If you Google, you will find this, this chart, there is nothing secret there. Um, and that's, that's the fundamentals of uh, of Lin manufacturing actually. So for the ones of you who have studied that a bit, um, a lot of things are coming from from TPS and it's a mix of 2 things, uh, just in time and and Goa. So the just in time, like getting the continuous flow of parts in a workshop, um having a t time, that means the time it takes to to build a car. It's 1 minute roughly. Um, then
[00:20:15] Um, that is said by the demand a p system. So this is 1 part for us, which is more interesting. Is the go car part, go means uh, built-in quality, that means, um, we don't manufacture defects. If something happens in the production line when uh, an operator is building a car and focus or is losing a screw or something, um, then the car will not continue as long as the screw is not put back on the car. So that's that's very important. We don't let but quality go to the next step and that's what we try to apply into um, into our data platform. So stop and and notify and that's why we need Solutions, like Monte Carlo, we need to know at any time, if there is a problem with the data
[00:21:00] Because then, we need to stop. If a data pipeline is broken, someone is using it in a powerbi or was an agent is using this data. But the data is still for 3 weeks and no 1 Know It, uh, then it's a problem. So, um, then separate work, human judgment versus machine. Even there is written from from the the third fundamentalist. It means Ai and human need to be separated AI is there to support human being, not to replace them.
[00:21:30] and, uh, then the end on culture that means, uh, stopping the alignment when needed
[00:21:36] another important part is, the is the 5S, uh, 5S is actually important in the plant and you that
[00:21:45] This is an actual picture of a of manufacturing facility in France, where they prepare bumpers, you see, it's okay? It's pretty clean. Um,
[00:21:55] and these are the 5S. So sorting Your Parts, uh, to remove unnecessary items, you don't so remove. Everything that is not necessary, remove waste, remove duplication, that's why it means set in order organized the all your items in a workshop. So that it's at the right place at the right time for you to use it Shine. Keep your workplace clean and equipment and also maintain the quality. So it is about monitoring the quality.
[00:22:21] Then standardize. That means about
[00:22:24] defining all the procedure, the operating model. How you work? Uh, for
[00:22:30] Is everything come start with a standard that we then Implement and then we improve if there is an improvement and then sustain, this is actually the discipline of of the management. So that is quite famous in the, uh, manufacturing area for data. What does that mean? Is 5 is, um, sort.
[00:22:51] so I told before that that we, we said,
[00:22:54] We only ingested at 1 time in the in the platform. So that that is what it means. We removed the pre and we get 1 source of Truth in the data. So if you have customer data, that's the correct. Customer data. There is no 2 or 3 customer data in the platform. That is only 1 which is the correct 1.
[00:23:12] 71 is set in order. That's organizing data.
[00:23:15] The data Marketplace that the second s.
[00:23:17] And the third 1 is shining monitoring data quality and clean when required. And that's why we have Monty Cairo.
[00:23:24] Standardized for all, just the operating standard and sustain, that that lasts 1 is important because that's where business plays a role. So they need to own their data domain. So when we showed that, that to them, they fully understand because they're all in green with the culture.
[00:23:42] So far, we have a actually 130 data products. We have a bit more since we we made the slide and 37 domains in production.
[00:23:52] um, for gioa, this is stopping to prevent when there is a manufacturing defect, you see on this picture that
[00:24:00] Lady, she's she's holding this. White rope is called the andon rope and when there is a problem. So any operator in the line can then build the line and then that will start to trigger some music, which then will bring some, the, the team leader will come to check, what's going on. And then there is a timer starting and then uh, after some time another 1 will come another person and after a certain timing the the line will completely stop. That means we stop the line even if we have a mind or if defect that we cannot solve
[00:24:32] So that is, of course doesn't mean that we we stop always the line. So this line is always always flowing but we have lots of music everywhere.
[00:24:41] So that's then here on the right. You have the end on Border. This is
[00:24:45] Very visual. We had a problems. Where should where should management pay attention in the manufacturing?
[00:24:52] For data. This is the the go car on the line for us, is the data quality. And so we monitor continuously for the important data products, uh, what is the, what is the data quality if there is a problem? Then we need to know it. Uh, and we have also, uh, to stop sending that defect to, uh, the consumers. So that means that we have to stop the probiotic. We have to stop the agents. So that's uh, that's important. And on the right, you have the end on board. That's the data observability and basically so um what we are, what what the state of of what we are doing, um animations have been broken.
[00:25:30] On this slide sorry about that. So then I will skip them.
[00:25:33] Okay, um, this is a bit more architecture point of view. The good thing for my team is that we also own the data platform architecture and the data architecture. So um, that means we have total freedom to do exactly what we want. Um, the uh, Source aligned data product. This is actually the raw data coming into from the data sources and that goes into snowflake. In Snowflake, we have 5 layer from staging integration and until the access layer where we publish our data products, and that's where we build our uh, foundational data product, but also the business oriented data products. And then for the foundational data product, we want to send them through monthly.
[00:26:15] Gallo to actually, uh, detect if there is a problem or not with the quality and send the signal to the data owners.
[00:26:24] uh, what we are also working at if Leon is not only
[00:26:28] Uh giving awareness to the data owners but also immediately triggering for bi or the uh AI to stop consuming the data and then providing a message, okay, there is a problem with the data so we we are working on it, we are fixing it but uh we cannot give you the the answer. So that's that's I think very important.
[00:26:51] In terms of Next Step. So yeah, season 1 that we have done, so, um, just to repeat a bit myself, 130 data products in
[00:27:00] Production across, uh, 37 domains. Um, we have also reusability factor that we are measuring in our, on our platform. It's almost 2 but that will grow. That means how many domains are consuming the data, uh, data sets from the, um, from
[00:27:19] from 1 application. And we have sometimes have to 11 times, it is used. So that's how we measure, effectiveness of the of the data mesh. Um, we have 1 un data warehouse platform. Um,
[00:27:33] We are doing this spoke with Monty Kelo for the data of so and quality monitoring. And then in, we have the covenants, the catalog. And that's also where we see the data quality measurement and our
[00:27:45] we have already an operational model ready uh season 2, what we are doing right now scaling up the production of AI, ready data product, uh, scaled production of Enterprise AI agent,
[00:27:57] Connecting all agents on 1 une backbone, so that's, uh, the image that you have seen with the common governance and the common backbone. Uh, actually that's the that's exactly the same for AI. So there is no difference between our data platform, and AI platform is the same and from by Design, that's how we would be want to have. And even kibra as a data catalog becomes also, our AI catalog, so all the axis, right, and all the requests to access and to data comes from the same unified, uh, system and then
[00:28:30] Next thing that you are working on is from data observability to AI agent, observability.
[00:28:37] I think we have 1 minute left, so I'm okay to take some questions.
[00:28:43] If any but yeah you mentioned the prices of s using that mathematical methodology for your data. Uh yeah, the 6 Sigma methodology. So to measure the data quality itself. Uh we are actually using um yeah. More rule based system to detect the drift but we are not, we are not directly using it but yeah yes and no so no not directly.
[00:29:16] we have it for some, uh, some specific data products, but not with the Monte Carlo solution, Monte Carlo solution is more looking at the, um,
[00:29:26] Automatic detection of issues. And uh, and also some simple rule base, uh,
[00:29:33] Problems.
[00:29:34] Uh, for the rest, we have all the data products where we are running that. Um, and for them we are we are using actually the traditional um Quality uh defect for instance 5 times we have a defect going out of 5 consecutive increase of a problem or some basic a bit. Empirical that we are hard coding. Also in the
[00:30:01] Yep. So um, after you create your semantic, layer your ontology and the business, definitions, how do you keep them updated as the business is growing and changing, okay? So the question is how we maintain the uh, basically the metadata uh, in our in our data catalog? Uh, we have data owners and then, um, regularly, we actually send a, we do an audit. So we send a uh, email personalized email to every data owner. If you don't get a reply then it's suspicious maybe that person left the company, you don't know or change responsibility, that's more typical. And um and then we send actually
[00:30:45] Um, personalized email with, uh, for instance. Yeah, your data product is uh is number number 3 in our data catalog. It has been consumed uh 150 times by 600 distinct users, things like that. So that the data owners also understand the value of their data product. Otherwise they don't know, they are just data product owner but
[00:31:07] once the,
[00:31:08] Okay, sometimes it's just a title and but here we just bring some something concrete, some evidence um and then uh by doing so we ensure that we always have an owner uh for the data and after that. Uh yeah. If there is any change required, then it's the the data architecture team on. Yes, the data Architects and the data go on and steam.
[00:31:30] Is going to contact the the the person. In case the change management is required could be that data, Architects will require to change the uh Enterprise data model. For instance, it will it might impact some data products. Then we have to do a change management but important is that we have the full lineage uh we know who is impacted. So the takeaway is that we need humans. Yeah, take away. We still need humans. Yeah. Yeah we are doing big uh big progress with AI actually especially for data architecture. That's that's a low hanging fruit. Actually, using AI for data architecture. Looking at what data is available in the data platform, uh, which data is available in the data Marketplace, but putting that together at scale with an Enterprise data model.
[00:32:15] That can save you a lot of time. Yeah.
[00:32:17] Okay, I think we are over the time.
[00:32:21] Uh, thank you very much.