 Hi everyone. Uh Stan from kibra 1 of the co-founders of the company. It's now 18 years ago, we've been doing this for quite a while. Uh, and if somebody can decode binary, please let me know what's on my head. Uh, because I'm not certain, I'm sure it starts with a d. Anyways, uh, I'm here just to introduce, uh, a few things before we introduce the meat on the bone of this presentation by Robin.  Uh, but I'm the guy on the left and then Robin's, the guy on the right is going to be with you in just a second. Uh, I think we all know this. I don't want to belabor the point about AI being here and agents taking over our jobs and so on and so forth. We all know that, uh, you know, when the 3 year disruption that we're in with AI. This is the year that everybody's talking about
Agents, which is a big difference from the chat Bots. Now, you're going to autonomous action which comes with a lot of uh, more consequences and a lot of more opportunities, of course. Now, some of you have been in this industry for a bit longer and then you start seeing the same patterns, you know, before with analytics, self-service, bi data, warehousing, whatever it was, you always get sold, a beautiful shiny dashboard, the sexy widget. And then, you know, 3 months in the project, when you start hitting, uh, obstacles, then the vendors, tell you, well, that's because you didn't take care of your data.  The AI vendors are now doing the same, they're saying my models, my LMS are great, my agents are great. If you have trouble, it must be because you're not providing the appropriate context to your agents. Uh,
Because of course, no matter how smart the llm is, no matter how much of the internet's data has been condensed into those uh uh weights. It still doesn't know everything right. So on the left hand side, uh there's connectivity with all sorts of your systems that it needs to tap into your products, your services, your operations that data, that is important context. And then on the right hand side, you want to connect that uh to the models and where they run uh as well.  And if you don't provide at the right time the right context to that smart, llm harnessed in an agent then even the smartest agent or the smartest human will make mistakes, right? Because they're missing information, they're missing context. Uh, and that's 1 of the positions that uh,
Libra takes with our uh platform which is to say, how do we provide this insight into the context, on the left hand side in your data sources? And how do we make sure that this context is found on the right hand side in the AI systems and context can be a variety of things? It can be contexts around the semantics can be context around the ownership. For example, around the quality and many more, uh, things. And by the way, this is a moving topic context is a, a well-known word in the uh, research industry. Uh, but in Industry itself, that word is now popping up left and right.  And the way that we see this evolve and this is over the last uh, 18 years, we've been tracking this up close, right? So we're developing with you as the industry matures, I would say
Do you see how?  Do they, you see how governance as a word or as a discipline is Shifting? Uh, and there's a shift left, right? How can you get more embedded into the systems? Uh, that are being built while they're being built before? They're being built, for example, on access or controls and guardian agents coming up. But you also have a shift, right? Where the business has to take some responsibility because they are in the end, the arbiter's of that context, right? So, how do you surface data products to them? But also, how do you give them automated tools that allow them to curate or fine-tune the context that is important to their models. But like I said, I'm not here to bore you with genetic theories. Uh, about calibra. We also did release our Command Center
Which has a lot of uh interesting features. You can see all of this at the boot. What I'm here for is just to introduce Robin.  So Robin from weird. He'll explain is how they're actually doing it in practice.  Thank you, Robin. You do over to you. Thank you.  Hi, my name is Robin. I am the data governance, uh, product owner for, um, the weird group. Uh, we are my role is to sort of bring, um, data governance policies into practice. So, to operationalize data governance, um we are um looking at this talk here is going to help us understand how we bring AI governance from the document from the Internet site that people possibly most consumed it from and bring it into actual workflows and practice.
I mean I think many of us will have policies. Many of us some of us will have principles um but we'll share today. How we have taken that uh into practice.  So just a bit of context we are, um, is a mining engineering technology firm. We look uh to support the transition to um, renewable energies. Uh we we realize that the mining industry um is not necessarily a sacred uh industry. And so we're looking to clean up that with smart technology and support a sustainable mining for uh, to support the transition to using these. Um, renewable energies.  so again just a little bit of context like we're a group and think about how AI is impacted where  We're 150 years old over, 150 years old. Starting up is a small industry.
Engineering firm in, um, in Glasgow at that point, the sort of the computer and the AI was bit of a pipe dream. There were, um, concepts of human computers and algorithms written in theory that could be supported. But at that point, there was no, uh, compute as such at that point. We've taken that Journey um, to in the last 10 years. When we've made that strategic decision to move from South the heavy heavy industry to really um supporting mining Tech, um, we've taken on quite a few Acquisitions. We've shaped the business um, away from, uh, to to Really leverage the technology and AI tooling that we've done. So we've made some Acquisitions in recent years. Um, which is really sort of stepped up our AI capabilities, um, in their  so when we look at like, why this matters,
Why AI governance matters. Uh, for the we group, um, we uh, see safety. We operate in a, a highly, um, High consequence area where, you know, mine sites in themselves are, you know, some of the starkest working operation sites that we can find and safety is critical in those places but also, you know, business decisions, knowledge decisions. Um, are are key for us, um, and then ultimately, you know, in the last 5 years, we've now seen that, you know, core operations are, um, heavily dependent on AI.  Um and then we've what we discussed as well is like governance whilst we had policies. We're not really keeping up with the delivery. AI is growing rapidly at scale and we are trying to sort of make sure that our government's maturity tracked that
So where we have ai and we group we can see that that is um a significant use case in everyone that impacts most people in the business is co-pilot co-pilot. Um,  Was 1 of our first use cases, where we realized that just unleashing uh the power of co-pilot uh to the end user computers. You know, those would would create talents there so that kind of in a sense was the first Call to Arms on a big, scale around how we could uh, govern AI.  We've got lots of, um, what we call product embedded AI. So these are performance, uh, monitoring tools. Uh, the, some of the recent acquisitions. We've got AI, use cases that can scan, um, and use the video to scan uh operational sites for um anomalies that would maybe.
Was downtime. We also have process optimization that you know, looks at how well your mindset is dealing with waste etc etc. And um those are um  Sort of key product to the market that we have digital twins. Again, these are sort of obviously, to help us optimize clearly the sales productivity um, uh, is a key area for us to sort of like, take all that Insight intelligence and make it available rapidly and Engineering internally and how strong we deliver and build machines. And, and our Engineering Process, we look to see how we can, uh, take those  Uh so what we realized was that AI was growing rapidly, like it was the 1 of the and everyone here will will attest to that as well.  We realized that through.
Acquisitions and through, basically sort of like, engineering and fragmented capabilities, we had lots of AI throughout the stack. We were, um, you know, we, we realized that g was, was was  On everyone's desktop but it was increasingly being used in um engineering Solutions Etc. And there was no longer this idea of experimentation it wasn't in an idea anymore or a prototype suddenly it was you know it was real life. We were selling to customers. We were using it in operations, on a daily basis and um, you know, we were making decisions on the back of it and  Key to that was that governance was lagging. You know, we did have some oversight like we we were acknowledged that it wasn't completely rogue rogue AI development but it wasn't consistent.  so, we
What we thought was was getting to the point we need to solve. What was the problem. We knew that there wasn't a single view of it. We had to sort of, you know, filter through different organization structures, um, and find different business, domains at different models, etc, etc. So we we didn't have a central place to look at it inconsistent risk. So, you know, we had, we sort of people had at least given us some risk assessment but it wasn't consistent. It wasn't measurable across the Enterprise. Um,  and the other key part is again, this is where we set policies on paper.  That were in SharePoint sites. They were um you know everyone did AI governance training Etc. But did they actually do the process? And was there a workflow that supported that and and it wasn't really easy for us to be able to defend any decisions that we've made or any agreements about whether we should use this AI. Use case with
Model, etc, etc.  So our objective was to uh come up with 1 uh supportive workflow that would uh engage AI governance in the design in the in the life cycle of um uh AI where the AI life go.  So what do we think? The governor look like Central AI inventory. That was obvious, we needed somewhere where we could have complete visibility, and there was clear ownership within that registry.  We looked at standardizing the risk management consistent assessments unified controls. We were basically making sure that everybody's use case measured up against each other.  Automated processes. We realized that at scale, we weren't going to be able to use a spreadsheet anymore. We were going to be able to use um
Uh, you know, teams or slack chats to keep this kind of going.  Audit ready. So that's kind of where we realized that risk was and risk. Measurement was risk. Management was becoming very key. We are now have the concept of, uh, AI risk being called out as a, um, business risk in its own, right? And not just a subset of it or uh data.  So what did we do differently from policy to practice? We treated AI governance as an operating capability. It was not. Uh um, it was not a project, it was not something that was just going to be done and we could tick off AI governance. It was going to become a way of life.  And that we to that point, we uh, are not to the keynote today. We created AI Control Board. Their role was across a multi stakeholders to look at security.
Compliance operational, decisions Etc. And we were able to say this is um, the with this is the ownership structure and the governance structure that we need a road map for and so that we can measure our success in that process.  We designed the governance around the life cycle. So we actually had to interpret what is, what would be under life cycle? How can we, how can we, uh, embed ourselves in that process? And so, from ideas, right through to retirement, we were, uh, giving ourselves a stage Gates,  Again, talked about risk gate but proportional oversight. So no risk.  Uh low impact, you know. Um feel free to uh to proceed but obviously continue to be monitored higher risk gives us its depth. Uh, you know, where we were looking at where the more collaboration legal reviews.
Compliance reviews. Even board reviews if necessary.  And we realized that with caliber already on the on the park when we were with our data governance, we realized that this was a great place to help. We used to kibra as a system of record that allowed us to um, have all of the workflows built into the processes reusing existing owners and structures and data structures and it gave us a with AI. Governance module that did give us a good central place to look at it.  And and what that also meant is, it prepared us for the future. It anchored the AI governance to the data governance so that there was the future state would be to be able to build from the data governance and context through to AI.  in in the assessments that we built for ourselves, we kind of we came up with principles,  We?
Realized that you know the with great power comes great responsibility and AI certainly needed us to have some sort of value statement that we could have to hold ourselves to. So we could measure against safety, particularly as key sustainability is a massive part of our strategy. Um, fair and trusted are obviously ethical points that you know um is increasingly regulated compliance obviously and human Centric. We were clear that we can't just have ai lead us.  We need to lead AI.  Um and then we then also pushed that through further Dimensions value versus effort. How much is this going to cost us what's our return on investment? Should we do it as somebody else already doing it. And um you know whether or not that made a good case for proceeding. With the idea again we've talked about regulatory risk EI
The eua Iraq is our gold standard. Um, at the moment, you know, we find that that's most comprehensive. And so we kind of Benchmark or everything we do against that,  Business risk is clear, you know, how, how become, how can we, um, put ourselves, uh, in operational capacities to create efficiencies, and how they supported. But also, we are, we have go to market capabilities that need, um, we that need, uh, that level of, um, rigor to make sure that we're not exposing the business to reputational risk, Etc.  so,  how it works in practice again? Repeat it. We we take we have a common intake. We, uh, force. All the use cases to be uh, ingested.  We centralize that in our area and inventory. Again, talking about standardizing
In in the paths that we talked about their risk based workflows driven by calibra, uh, assessment capabilities. Um, clear accountability. That's quite helpful because in the past, it wasn't always obvious to anyone where the ownership lies. But now there's with that registry, and with the ownership structure, we created, we can now see owners and they have responsibilities. So, we've increased their awareness of the responsibility. They have other than just somebody who's built an AI model or a use case.  And then evidence-based, so that all of the approvals everything is captured.  uh to make that to bring that to life, we created this dashboard where we uh, Within calibra  We register, it's clearly designed that we can register AI, use cases, and AI models.  there's links to the standards and again to our data AI Hub where we um it's which is
Ship Point Internet site where we um have all of the guidelines and how to use it. All of our best practices all of our frequently asked questions and we navigate directly to this uh dashboard within 3. But it makes it simple and accessible.  Um in the end we we have this AI use case registry. So there's 1 similar place. People can come in, we can measure risk, Etc. Uh and start to capture cases. This is where people should come to to do some initial investigations and check to see whether use cases already exists. And then we can also any point to determine their life cycle.  um,  We've then taken that in for that data and we created a dashboard with that allows us to have a risk Matrix. This is this is a key uh, reporting uh, element that we allows us as a business to determine uh, and show a high level.
We are the problems. Are we are the good where the focus should lie? We're we're able to determine that, you know, our risks are not outside of our appetite and our, um, business domains, we can start to capture and interrogate where the risk in any business sits.  In what changed. So what did it feel like, what did what did what was the thing? So we basically AI governance we we determined was wasn't invisible? Well it was invisible, it wasn't not happening. People were doing it in places. Uh and people went you know maliciously uh using AI to without any control. There was some element of control but it wasn't visible. We couldn't see it so it's an operational. So we brought that forward decisions became consistent because we were able to use the standardized platform.
And more importantly, it became traceable. So that was some of the point in time that when somebody, um, wanted to, uh, to qualify why a decision was made, we were able to record it. We removed the use of emails, we removed the use of Team chats. It was the decision was built into the workflow and recorded directly in the tool.  And, um, just decisions became defensible. That's this thing. So, we've kind of moved from trusted data to implementing trusted decisions. That's allowed us. The key part of it. Uh, that was a key decision for us. Clearly. The business impact is that they felt AI governance was happening with them, not against them reduced reflection. We were able to really introduce that quite quickly with, um, a small cohort, which we brought on first. They were, they they they roughed out the, um,
The the calibra uh screen sets, we did some minor tweaks and then we rolled that out to everyone and we've had quite a good success rate. We know it's a significant increase in the caliber usage for for 1 thing. But also now in in introduces a greater Demand on what's In calibra,  uh, we had a fast fast approach, we need. Faster, approvals AI is moving. So quickly Solutions, need to be ready and deployed as quickly so that we don't miss opportunities and higher confidence is what we're saying. So now actually, we can start to see at 1 place.com,  So I want to just share some lessons with the community for you. The policies. We we learned through this process policies. Don't scale.
Workflows, do we realize that the policy on a page and policies in an even then when we try to sort of like migrate that to excel capabilities, that was fine for uh, for for the beginning. But we realized that we needed more and more workflows and we did it into life cycles.  Risk based governance is essential. We we we, we realized that we can't treat everyone the same every use case. Can't take all that effort. There was, you know, we just put in context. We now have fully governed roughly about 70, use cases. We now have 200 in the pipeline to become fully governed their sitting waiting. So we can't um possibly treat everything the same. We need some way of being able to identify what is low risk and what requires our focus and uh um,  What is a proportional uh Attain?
Visibility was key once it was exposed, it wasn't in a spreadsheet somewhere. Now, there's a tool everyone, theoretically, everyone in the business has access to Libra. Everyone can now look at use cases, uh, and determine what's happening with the ownership as well. The owners themselves have now been given more accountability with the roles and responsibilities that we've, we've, we've discussed with them. And, um, that has helped with understanding that, you know, that accountability doesn't just sit with a compliance team. It sits with a use case, owner themselves,  And embedding AI governance. Early is always key. Make it part of the life cycle, make it part of the design principle because the questions you ask during design help solve problems further down the line, this is all good practice. Anyway,  and the benefit with calibra, for sure is
That once we got to the point of governing, more than 10 use cases, we realized that this wasn't going to scale quickly that we uh we operate in a business, um, in 60 different countries, 12,000 people with different, uh, use um, AI centers of excellence across the the company when they're selling their products. And so we needed to be able to sort of unify them on on a tool. So that's where we we feel caliber is definitely supported our journey.  So, what's next?  So what we're saying here is that we now have governance.  Uh usually doing an assessment when an idea comes to a flight, we then have set it up to periodically monitor. Um but what we want is more intelligence. We want governance intelligence. We want to be able to say  that um, we've got
Sort of an automate, you know, autonomous AI that basically says that they can flow through the process. It's able to, uh, look at our, um, AI registry AI, agent registry, which we're looking to introduce very shortly. Um, and and actually then start to think about where those AI agents what data they're using, who owns them, what's their impact.  Then we want to sort of continuous governance, we realized that these models. These agents are in Flight all of the time and we want to be able to sort of have real time keeping capabilities and we see the command center coming from Clea as certainly something in a step in the right direction for that, giving us some unified control.  again, the topic of today, the keynote context is King our data governance layer, our our um our Enterprise data model, and now our uh semantic layer
We're building, it will become essential within kbra, uh, to, um, become the context for AI tooling. We want uh, to to explore the capabilities of mCP server and look at again, getting that interested content through to um, through to AI models.  And AI at scale. So Innovation and safety are key for us, you know, we want AI Innovation. We know we need it as a business. We know it's a key segment for us and uh, technology software technology and uh, is part of our strategic business goals.  But again, we need it with responsibility and safety. So  um, we we think that the  Uh, all all all these sort of capabilities built in together, we should be able to make sure that we're innovate safely.  Again.  Just as a sort of to close for mind.
Side. Um, if we do the governance,  Correctly. We we bring the people to, we go to the people, we bring their lives, their life cycle to life, with governance issuance low AI down, it gives everyone somewhere to go fast. So  Thank you very much for that.  Thank you.  No, you off, you go. So first of all thanks for presenting this. And I like how you laid out how, you know, the the risk framework gives you like Fast Lanes, a slower Lanes, where there's higher risk, and maybe more steps are needed for Fast Lane. Go quick and see what happens. Um,  First question I have is around culture. So how would you say that? Uh the weird groups culture has helped or hindered uh rolling this out?
Um, I think what's key in in where group being and different from other companies are word for is it safety is a key aspect. So safety. And any governance that, um, and control around that is Key. Safety is a part of every day, every meeting no matter where you work, you know. So not and even knowledge workers are brought into that concept, so it it that culture exists and allows us the opportunity to follow in with good controls. Good governance, sustainability is another culture within the business. It's just, we are, you know, a very, uh, targeted, um, company. Looking at how we can do our business, but in a sustainable way, and again, that lends itself to AI as a sustainable. But we are actually now looking at things like cost compute power carbon footprint water usage as well in a governance.
Of AI, not just in, um, you know, whether or not it's got risk or not.  Right? Because if there's something going wrong, there's actual people's lives. That can help us take. Definitely. So the safety culture has helped thinking about how you should do this operationally, um, as well. Well then let's go to the next big topic because as you know, when it comes to projects like this or programs like this or big changes, like this culture is a valuable in your organization that determines how you can make successful and a second big variable is the leadership. So, uh, where does it sit? Who's the executive sponsor? Supporting all of this. So we are, you know, there's multiple layers of of governance in in, in control there we have, you know, but AI is a control board. Now, is a standalone capability. We have
Um, ahead of ahead of data governance that controls, you can change that but our chief data officer is is runs that lead and Ai and AI governance is reportable to the board. Now, as an as I separate risk as I was, you know, that has been identified as a business risk and therefore is has board oversight as well, right? So you have, uh, the chief data officer overseeing some, but ultimately AI reports all the way up to the board. Yeah, okay. Well I've seen this before but thanks for confirming this uh everybody real quick. Thank you for uh Robin. Um,  Thank you. Thank you Robin.  and then,  I'll use the time available to do my 3 call to action actions. I have to do my, uh, duties. So we have a few exciting topics at our booth.
Over, uh, 1 of them is around unstructured. We got Kirk himself. So uh, do speak to Kirk. He's an expert on this topic and on the data quality topic and combining data quality with an unstructured is a quite a big question. Uh we saw like I said, we've been doing kibra for about 18 years now but the worlds of structure and unstructured always used to be separate as if there was a big damn uh, between them and then AI came and just crashed to them. So what we see now is a big Title Wave of questions, coming to our uh data people audience to say Hey how do we deal with this unstructured problem which as you know is 80% or more uh of any companies uh data? So definitely take a peek at Kirk and what they're doing with DZ because there's a lot of uh, interest and learnings there  Uh, a second 1.
And we know we're doing this for us a little bit, but also mostly for you, we throw our own events called the data citizens events. This is where you connect with your peers, you learn from each other as you are doing here. So we just did a few in um um in Munich and in Rotterdam I believe and we've got more upcoming and badass soon San Francisco as well as later in the year in London. So, uh, please all welcome there. I think if you do the QR code, it tells you where to go when, but we'd love to see you there, and we'd love to hear your stories and experience. And last but not least for the fans of beautiful sunglasses and intrusive devices that spy on everything you can get a uh, Rayban meta glass over at our boot. Just drop your business card in there and then you can get the Spy device. Raffled off. Thank you, everyone. Hope you have a good show.
Bye.