[00:00:04] Okay, good morning everyone. I think it's still morning, just about um, first of all, thanks to you all for actually choosing our session to come to. Hopefully, you won't regret that after we've got some great insights. Um, for the next half an hour just to introduce myself, I'm Coleman Whitefield. I'm the um, CTO Experian data quality. So we're the business unit within XP and responsible for building out software, all related to data quality, um, data governance. And we're really looking, um, to have, uh, Brad. Novak with us today, who's a CTO at Raf bones. I'm going to be sending the next half an hour. Actually talking about. Um, Brad's experience within wrath Bones, the data Journey there on the challenges.
[00:00:45] And that they're having with respect to data quality data governance, um, but you want to briefly introduce yourself Brad? So um, Brad Novak. Uh, I'm CTO rathbones a 300 year old British wealth manager. Uh, and, uh, I've been in banking most of my career. I've done wealth management before, I worked at a number of big Banks but joined rathbones, uh, this year. So relatively new Journey, there that's great. So for those that are not as familiar with rathbones as as you are, do you want to describe the uh data environment that you have there? Um, the role that data plays
[00:01:19] So, probably start.
[00:01:21] Raspones is a wealth manager. So 2 of our biggest businesses are Investment Management managing Investments for our clients and Financial
[00:01:30] Planning managing their future, their cash flows, their retirement, you know, their inheritance, uh their tax. Uh so very data-centric business. I think rathbones positions ourselves that it's always going to be human in the loop. We um, you know, I think if there's 1 person in your life that you probably don't want to replace with AI, it's the person managing your entire wealth, and your your life's earnings and your your legacy for your children. So it's human in the loop but it's a very data-centric business. And, uh, you know, when I joined rathbones I I I was pleased that we'd set up a data team. There was some investment in building out data. Um, there was a data environment, so some of the some
[00:02:15] Some of the ingredients were there when when I arrived, but I for me it's just such an important topic. Uh, which is why I'm here today, uh, and uh, there's so much more we can do, so you're fairly new to your role, um, Ambitions, for the next 3 years. Um, I mean, anybody in technology any CTO any tech department AI has to be at the center of it figuring out how you'll respond to threats and opportunities that AI is going to bring to your business. Um, you know for me it's
[00:02:47] the the ability to do great things in technology, has never been more tangible. So it's really building out that team building out that foundational information so that you can you can create
[00:03:00] Great solutions for your uh, for your businesses for your customers. It's it's not just about an operational platform but really finding ways to to use tech. And and again, I just think there's never been a, a better time to achieve great things and data quality data governance. Uh, clearly a priority for you and what the key challenges are actually made that the priority. Um, I mean, first statement I'm a bit more of a data quality person than a, a data governance person. I think, you know, there are some Chief data officers that are that think of data as a very bureaucratic problem where you need lineage and documentation and reams of paper that no 1's ever going to read. But for me data quality, really resonates, right? It
[00:03:45] You know, in our business, uh, correcting a single phone number and address linking to records, you know, getting the right National Insurance. There's so much value in that all of our operational processes. Hang upon data, you know, serving customers both in terms of a value add and from a regulatory perspective every every millimeter of data quality really makes a big tangible difference to the to the the business. So it's part of the data Journey but it's to me it was a no-brainer to to Really lean into it and Experian with something we were looking at when I joined and I think since then we found more ways to to Leverage The the data quality toolkit. But again it's uh you know, data is
[00:04:28] Key asset. And
[00:04:30] Data quality is is is this is a no-brainer?
[00:04:33] And um certainly in my experience um data quality is still seen as quite a reactive thing people. Um experience data, quality issues and obviously react to it, fix them have programs around that what was it at wrath bones, that kind of change that mindset to to more proactive.
[00:04:49] I mean, I think if you're in a Frontline job data quality isn't isn't imperative, right? Like if you're trying to generate mailings to clients knowing families structures knowing how they like to be called their name, their preferred name like the Frontline. People didn't need a lot of convincing. Um, and when we get the data wrong, when the email bounces even in, you know, not just for existing clients Market.
[00:05:15] prospects, like it wasn't wasn't hard to convince people of of the value of, of data quality, and that being proactive, I mean, some of it was just we could be proactive, maybe the less imaginative people don't realize some of the the options they have but when presented with the opportunity to proactively make some of these things better again it it made it was an easy sell
[00:05:39] And you talk about, um, human in the loop. Uh, a lot um, specially with, we respect to to AI. Was there a point where, um, you know, non-tech stakeholders started taking more ownership of data quality rather than just relying on technical people at all? Have you seen that kind of shift we're
[00:06:00] Forcing it. I I think our view is even if we think we have a data quality improvement, a better a better a better way of structuring it. Something that needs fixed, we have humans that make that final decision that. You know, it's if you're an investment manager, it's your client, it's your client's data, it's your asset. So we really do try to keep that responsibility with the the data owner, but Empower them make, it easy hand them. What you think? The right answer is hand them, the corrections and and let them just push. Uh, okay.
[00:06:33] And you talked about your um partnership with Experian um which kind of explains why I'm here talking to you. Today we have a great uh partnership. Um, could you explain how that part
[00:06:45] Partnership came about what the kind of challenges are being solved as part of that partnership.
[00:06:50] So I think 1 of the things about our business is there's a lot of third-party software, use a lot of vendors. It's just wealth management Asset Management. You're going to use a lot of SAS software. You're going to have multiple providers of Investment Systems, planning systems you're going to integrate them. So you're you're living in a world where your master data is Federated across a number of different places and for us, we we needed to get on top of that Master data problem and really make sure they linked cleanly, uh, that the the same data quality flowed through all of our systems and experience helped us with that. Uh, we we started with aperture data studio. So the real
[00:07:30] Really, uh, use AI use technology to link these things up to create that Master record figure out where there were discrepancies and fuzzy matching to bring it together. So I think our journey started there. Uh, but once we were there, we started to say, well, what else can you do for me? And, and that's where we started looking at the validation Services, the Enrichment Services. And and, you know, we talked about Mosaic this morning. So I I think, once we had the tool set in there and you started to create that right framework? You just keep asking yourself, what else can we do to make our data better? And, and that's where some of these other products have have joined the, the journey
[00:08:09] And I guess it would be uh, remiss of me. Not to move the topic more.
[00:08:15] To AI. Um, and there's, there's obviously a lot of talk about AI, ready data. Yeah. Um, garbage in garbage out. We've been saying this for for decades, right. How do you see AI, ready data or quality of data, actually impacting your, your the speed, uh, on your, AI journey and and analytics? I mean, to me it's it's the most important. AI investment you can make is, is your data and your people. Um, you know, the
[00:08:47] We're using AI in a lot of different ways to generate transcripts Insight code, uh, processes Etc. And any anything that we generate with AI, we're going to be regenerating and regenerating.
[00:09:00] as I AI gets better, so the the AI investment can easily like I, I look at people with
[00:09:07] Organizations, with thousands of agents. And I just go that just feels like a mess, whereas the investment in data getting that foundational data, quality getting that ontology, the metadata on top of your data, that's your durable investment, and then as AI marches forward and as you're regenerating things, it'll only get better and better. So I think we're really trying to position uh, the data investment as the AI investment and the real return on investment in the future. Uh, so that as AI gets better and better, we can we can do great things. And and that, that layer, you know, it's the underlying
[00:09:45] Data and data quality. But the the metadata on top of it, that really is going to unlock the future of these models as they evolve. And what would you say are the kind of you know looking back some of the biggest benefits that you've had for for this focus on on the quality of your data. Um I mean it's another reason why when I joined rathbones data was 1 of the first tech areas that we doubled down on its that the the time to Value can be so fast with the right skill set, you know, you know, we we use Snowflake and a number of other tools um with the right skills and the developers with python and the things they need.
[00:10:24] There's things that used to take months used to be waterfall projects. The business was almost
[00:10:30] Used to we'll put it into the next quarterly plan and we'll talk to you in 4 months time and we've been able to do things like analyze our customer flows money coming in money, coming out in just hours or days to be able to do Predictive Analytics where we think, you know, certain clients are at risk and we should reach out to them. What's the next next best action? So we we really leaning in more to the customer facing AI, use cases, because it, it really can give us insights to the business that we've never had and and the Technologies like snowflake have gotten so good that you just have to take advantage of that. And but if you don't have that right data quality, it's you're not going to have the right answer, like quality of your
[00:11:15] Answer is more down to the quality of your data, than which AI model you're using, or how you trained or tuned it and, um, a genetic AI a topic in itself. So, um,
[00:11:25] Just interested in your thoughts on on where you see that going within rathbones. I mean, we're not there yet because I do think you need that great data quality before you can trust agents to do things autonomously. So I think the first phase of our journey, I'm I'm, there are a couple months now is really, um, build out our data, uh, back to. We had the data in lots of pockets. Bring it together, get the right quality. Use AI to drive data quality. But I I think we are, we're being relatively careful where we use agents and most of the agents,
[00:12:00] Are more humans interacting with agents as opposed to really agents on their own. I I just think we have to be quite careful of the maturity there and there's so much value we can add before we we cross that bridge that it it's just the risk reward isn't isn't there yet to do a lot that's um agentic.
[00:12:20] And on the data quality side again, have you seen kind of skill changes within the team or, uh, changes in skill? That's been necessitated by the programs, like you putting in, whether it be data, stewardship, ownership, that that kind of stuff. I mean, 1 of the things we're trying to do is
[00:12:39] go much more to a full stack skill set. So when I I looked at the data,
[00:12:45] The team that we had, which was, you know, a little bit powerbi heavy, but had some, some good engineering skills as well. There'd be
[00:12:53] a subset of the team that could write pipelines in a subset that could do modeling and another team that could do the the wrangling and get their head around the data. And another group of people that can write reports and what we're really trying to do is say the best data person can do all of those things, right? We'll need some specialists around operations and other other things, certainly on, maybe a in some of the modeling tasks but really pivoting towards a data person that can do everything from, you know, build agents to build reports. Because those handoffs were costing us time. There were costing us money and, you know, now with
[00:13:30] The AI tools with cortex and snowflake with Cloud code, that really good person that isn't afraid to do all the tasks can can. Again you can bring your time to Value down significantly. So we're we're really leaning into high-end data people that have that full skill set and even even at the junior side like we're bringing in interns for the first time. So we're kind of going to some extent that the the skill set today is a bit of confidence that like you can ask somebody to do anything and they can't go. Well, I don't know, Cobalt I can't do this task, they can, they can do it. So I think bringing in that the best Engineers, we can get with that full stack and then bringing in, you know, more and more a culture of people that grew up with these tools and have the confidence.
[00:14:15] That no matter what, you throw at them, they can figure it out. So it's, you know, but, you know, definitely looking for engineers. Like, you don't want, you don't want the data scientists that need somebody else to configure their, uh, Azure AWS, because they don't know Cloud. You want that person that has that broad skill set and has the confidence to learn what they they they need to learn. It's it's quite interesting, you talk about interns and and mindset. Um just in my experience as well. It's kind of the thought of bringing in fresh people. Now, uh, at that level is actually quite exciting because they're, they're the first generation who will come in with an AI native mindset. Yeah. So, um, we're going through this transitional phase. Uh, every every organization is to try and kind of move to a more AI native way of thinking.
[00:15:00] That transition, it's usually quite hard for someone at the other end of their career. Um, I've always done it this way and blah, blah blah. But uh yeah it's interesting to to to hear what you're saying there because there's a there's a mindset shift that's that's going to be to be happening when you talked about earlier about um authentic Ai and and the fact that you're not quite there yet, you're trying to get your data quality in place first, which I admire do you find that there's a trade-off or a balance of the, the kind of data quality versus speed, um, or are you a no compromise on that. Is it is. Do you find you're having to make any compromises when you're under time pressures to deliver?
[00:15:38] Some of the agentic stuff, for example, I mean we're regulated industry. So uh, with consumer Duty,
[00:15:45] And what we need to look after for client outcomes, you can't get it wrong. So, you know, if we're going to generate a transcript which everyone's doing but it's going to be specialized for certain purposes. You know, making sure that we've tested it, that we figured out bias that it's accurate that, it understands the languages we use in terms of some of the financial products. There isn't really a a place we can compromise so to some extent
[00:16:11] You can't.
[00:16:13] Put the client in the hand of AI until you're, you're sure it's right. So I I think the data quality and what's nice about data quality, it hasn't
[00:16:23] It hasn't been a separate Journey. Like we're implementing a new CRM platform that's all about bringing the data together. We've got some
[00:16:30] Operational processes to fix. It's it's all about getting the data there the Insight. So it hasn't, it hasn't even been a separate initiative. We've been able to embed it in almost every project we have. We were able to say we've got an architecture, we've got principles, we're going to use each investment to kind of advance that data Journey.
[00:16:50] okay, I think we, we
[00:16:52] Plenty of time for some Q&A if you want to take some questions from the audience that anyone got any, uh, any question for Brad that they want to ask. I'll, I'll repeat the question. But, uh, or for comment or for me. Yeah.
[00:17:05] Here we go. So this. So, this is a just for, for the, the tape. This is, um, related to what we're talking about with the influx of interns that we're bringing in.
[00:17:15] And what the kind of, um, training programs are for them? Is it around self-learn or do we have some, um, prescribed learning programs for them?
[00:17:23] So it's a good question and the answer would have looked different a couple years ago. Uh, we, um,
[00:17:31] I do feel like,
[00:17:33] There are some people that just don't need learning anymore, they've got co-pilot and cod and they can ask anything at any time. And and it's 1 of the things that gives me confidence that the interns are going to be quite productive. They're going to be able to deliver things. Because, whatever obstacle they run into, they've got, uh, AI helping them. They, we're going to Buddy them up. So I I kind of view got to figure out that ratio. Like, if we're going to bring in the high engineer,
[00:18:00] How do we pair them? So that each high-end engineer has 1 or 2 more Junior people including the intern, so we're going to have to figure out coverage in office is going to be important here. So we, you know, uh, not everybody comes in the office every day, but for the interns we're going to have to really create that environment. But we're also looking more strategically at learning Journeys. So we're doing some work with Cornerstone to create custom learning Journeys, both in front office and in technology where we we can take people that maybe have some of the skills we need from non-traditional places and create that uh that very specific training Journey because I think training material is now uh been there done that and it's
[00:18:45] All available on YouTube and everything else but that custom Learning Journey for. Um, any role in rathbones is the thing that we're partnering with Cornerstone to try try to create, but I, I do think in the end like, it's, it's never been easier, uh, to learn than today. Uh, but we, you know, I think we have a responsibility to that next Generation. They've got to the, the risk is, they lean too much into AI too early and they don't learn the fundamentals of software development and other things. So, to be able to make sure you've got that mentoring, that really allows them to build the skills because back to what you were saying Coleman. If you've got 30 years of development, you can interact with these code generators and create great things and you can fix it when they
[00:19:30] Go wrong. You can understand what they're doing and redirect it but when you're coming out you don't have that experience. So we we need to you know that's where that mentoring and that Learning Journey comes in that. We have to make sure that you know maybe there's AI free days or other things where people don't shortcut that the learning of the skills that they're going to need um as they start to architect and build more substantial things and data is a nice place for interns as well like in the space we're talking about today. There are so many places you know and even like I'm I interviewed a physics major I interviewed some of the interns myself and you know be able to take the work they're doing on their physics projects using Matlab and Python and compare it to what we're doing is there's quite a good translation.
[00:20:15] So I think data might be 1 of the easier places to put some of these Junior people, but obviously we want to train people across the breadth of the platforms as well.
[00:20:25] Thank you. Um yeah, another question.
[00:20:28] 2 2. Okay, so the question is um, how are you? Um, achieving data quality and second question, how are you measuring success or failure on that?
[00:20:37] So if I use the experience angle, like, we're leaning in to um uh uh validation services, so where we can provide a lot of information experience and they say, listen that's not a valid phone number email address the address should be this. So we're that's 1 of the use cases that we decided to use EXP.
[00:21:00] Experian, we're now going into the Enrichment Services. So I was trying to tap into their deeper database on people and addresses and lean into that. So that's that's an example and uh, we were talking about it earlier to your other question. We didn't do a business case on this 1 when we looked at the price of some of that, it would have cost more to do a business case um, than just to buy the the validation services. So on some of this it's just it was so obvious the value that it would bring to our business that we just got it done. And we're, it's 1 of the benefits of working at like, grass. Bones is not as big as some of the firms. I've worked at, you know, if it makes sense and it's the right thing to do and you, you have it because I, I do think, um, business cases are important for
[00:21:45] Some of the big things but but some of the data quality things that we're doing with Experian, just aren't that expensive and bring obvious benefit to our customers and our processes. So we haven't haven't done business cases for for those, it'll we we'll save that for the the bigger projects. Like, I definitely think when we really start to grasp, agentic Ai and make some big, a AI Investments, which we need the foundational platforms, there's going to be business cases for those. We're going to have to talk about, uh, you know, and and it's going to be both threatened opportunity. Those business cases, it's going to be very commercial. It's going to be about, you know, who are our competitors, and how do we play? So, for the bigger AI Investments, we we won't forego business cases, but for some of these things, like I data quality, just instinctively uh,
[00:22:30] For the right prices was was a relatively easy decision.
[00:22:34] I'd add to that as well. Just just going back to what you were talking about validating addresses, okay. So and and this is on your question about how you measure it. I think it really it's about you defining. What good looks like, um, and, and that varies by use case if if your Amazon uh a bad address costs, you money, right? Quite a bit every every failed delivery costs, you know, fifty dollars or whatever. If you're posting marketing leaflets, you know, the bars, a lot lower, you don't really care. So I think it's about defining what good looks like, uh, and then putting controls in place to measure that
[00:23:12] But a question here. Thank you. Yeah.
[00:23:15] So I think correct me if I'm wrong here, but the question is, how do you get more holistic look on, on what your data quality is and how do you scale it? Yeah, I mean I can answer that from an experience perspective. So um
[00:23:28] We kind of separate the governance side from the actual um, data quality side. So think data quality is about instance data, it's about your physical data and what the quality of it is and if you think about governance it's about the metadata. So by defining data policies and this is kind of where you get your holistic framework, um, think thinking get a business level rather than what field is in what database where I don't don't care about that. Think about in in an abstract sense, what are the items that your business cares about? And what does good look like for those?
[00:24:00] Items.
[00:24:01] And it's that, that drives the actual physical data quality element. So we, we have Governor's modules but at the physical level, we actually have all of these data quality. You know, things that are running across all of your systems, irrespective of where that lives, but it's feeding in the results into your governance, uh, module. So at a policy level, you can see this policy has this data which drives these business processes and by the way, the quality of your data is this and this is where it lives and this is who owns it and this is where you need to fix it. So it's coming at it from that holistic um approach and it's I mean in our world it will depend a little on the data set, right? Like client data where there's a clear ownership, you're going to attack Quality Inn in 1 way.
[00:24:45] Time series data for pricing is is quite a different thing, but it is going to become more and more important as we train models. And we're, we're we're testing them, we're looking for drift, we're looking for quality of output. So I think as we start to use AI to create outcomes and agents, we're also going to have to use AI to measure the quality of data and make sure the inputs are of the right place. So we're not doing we're not that mature on this journey yet. Like if I talked about the data quality work, it was it was mostly just clearly the data was getting better, but how much better. And where is it wrong? But I but I I think, you know, some of the Technologies we're talking about should be able to, to help us measure that um, in a in a more.
[00:25:30] Quantitative way and I maybe it also comes back to what's the right juncture for some of that me, you know are you about to embark on a big investment? Do you want to staff up a team on data quality? So to be able to have those measures to justify, some of the Investments is is going to be important. But I I think we're all grappling with AI governance of which measuring data quality is going to be a big part of showing You've Got Confidence that you can trust these agents to to take autonomous actions. So so we're not doing uh, as much of what you're describing today. But it's it's definitely on the agenda through that AI governance lens. As we start to think about agentic, of course, is it the whole world? We haven't discussed here and that's unstructured.
[00:26:15] Data which is feeding the line share of AI models. Uh, and how, how do we determine the quality of unstructured data things like, um, is it giving Financial advice is, is this piece of unstructured data conflicting with this other piece of unstructured data that I'm using to feed my roles. There's a whole world of data quality out there as well that we haven't discussed yet. Um, I think I've got time for 1 more question. Um, sorry the question is do we have actual usage of AI to improve data quality rather than the other way around? Um, why don't you make a quick plug on that 1? Well, no it no, this isn't a plug, actually know this is going back to my previous answer about, uh, unstructured data because to determine the content of unstructured data. And then put some governance on it, AI is the natural.
[00:27:00] Technology to use to find out what is this, document talking about? Is it giving Financial advice? Is it conflicting with this? That's all driven from AI. So AI can actually give you the metadata, you need from unstructured data which you can then plug through um data quality rules and metrics is the way I would see that and we're just starting to go deep in our snowflake investment. And I've only kind of turned on their AI capabilities, Which leverages anthropics models. But that's exactly what I'm hoping to be able to do, is that what if we can, if we can get a good enough ontology on top of the data, so that these models can understand our data, we should be able to find data quality issues using AI clean them up. Absolutely. Um, you know,
[00:27:45] As we bring Legacy data into modern warehouses again, use AI to look at the data, find patterns find issues. So uh I'm totally with you that I think the data quality of the future that we're going to be using Ai and and a lot of the Technologies presenting here today are trying to use AI there. But we're we're definitely on the lookout for ways to use AI either just us coding these models or through the products that we bring in in the data stack to drive data quality. I think things things that we're just too hard a year or 2 account are now possible. And, you know, uh, pointing AI at data quality is is a great idea. So just to wrap up. Um, thank you, Brett, and thank you, all for attending. Uh, it's been really useful and I hope you all enjoy.
[00:28:30] Enjoyed it. And um, you can chat to us and contact us whenever you whenever you wish, if you got any further questions. So, thanks, everyone. Thanks everyone.